──────── Page 1 ────────

FOURTH EDITION

WORLD
INTRO
LINK
DEVELOPING ENGLISH FLUENCY

NANCY DOUGLAS

JAMES R. MORGAN

© National Geographic Learning
TEACHER’S BOOK

TEACHER’S BOOK

L E A R N I N G

Australia • Brazil • Canada • Mexico • Singapore • United Kingdom • United States

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 1 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 2 ────────

L E A R N I N G

© 2021 Cengage Learning, Inc.
National Geographic Learning,
a Cengage Company
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No part of this work covered by the copyright
herein may be reproduced or distributed in any form or by any means,
except as permitted by U.S. copyright law, without the prior written
World Link Level Intro Teacher’s Book: Developing
permission of the copyright owner.
English Fluency, Fourth Edition
“National Geographic”, “National Geographic Society” and the Yellow Border
Publisher: Sherrise Roehr
Design are registered trademarks of the National Geographic Society
Executive Editor: Sarah Kenney
Marcas Registradas
®
Senior Development Editor: Margarita Matte

Director of Global Marketing: Ian Martin
For permission to use material from this text or product,
Heads of Regional Marketing:
submit all requests online at cengage.com/permissions
Charlotte Ellis (Europe, Middle East and Africa)
Further permissions questions can be emailed to
Irina Pereyra (Latin America)
permissionrequest@cengage.com
Senior Product Marketing Manager:

Caitlin Thomas

Content Project Manager: Beth Houston
Teacher’s Book
ISBN: 978-0-357-50365-2
Media Researcher: Stephanie Eenigenburg

Cover/Text Design: Lisa Trager

Art Director: Brenda Carmichael
National Geographic Learning
200 Pier 4 Boulevard
Operations Support: Hayley Chwazik-Gee,
Boston, MA 02210
Avi Mednick, Katie Lee
USA
Manufacturing Planner: Mary Beth Hennebury
Locate your local office at international.cengage.com/region
Composition: MPS North America LLC

Visit National Geographic Learning online at ELTNGL.com
Visit our corporate website at www.cengage.com

© National Geographic Learning

Printed in China
Print Number: 01 Print Year: 2021

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 2 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 3 ────────

CONTENTS
World Link Program Walk-through T2
Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis T12
UNIT 1 2
UNIT 2 16
UNIT 3 30
REAL WORLD LINK 1–3 44
UNIT 4 46
UNIT 5 60
UNIT 6 74
REAL WORLD LINK 4–6 88
UNIT 7 90
UNIT 8 104
UNIT 9 118
REAL WORLD LINK 7–9 132
UNIT 10 134
UNIT 11 148
UNIT 12 162
REAL WORLD LINK 10–12 176
Language Summaries 178
Grammar Reference 188
Information Gap Activities 212
Additional Answers 217
Supplementary Content Guide T219
Bridge Units T220
Unit Reviews T236
Process Writing T264
Supplementary Content Audio Scripts T272
Supplementary Content Answer Keys T278
Student’s Book Audio Scripts T283
© National Geographic LearningA Quick Guide to Using the World Link Videos T299
Warm-Up Video Scripts T305
Global Voices Video Scripts T310
Workbook Answer Keys T317

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 3 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 4 ────────

WORLD LINK PROGRAM WALK-THROUGH

EXPLORE A COMPLETE UNIT

An updated, dynamic opening spread introduces
the unit topic and related language through
the “Warm-Up Video” and a beautiful National
Geographic photograph. Both the video and
the photograph are supported by engaging
discussion questions designed to get students
talking and sharing.

1

COMMUNITY
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
QUESTIONS.

1. Why do you think this type of activity is good
for the local community?

2. When does your local community come
together for a special event or activity?

WARM-UP VIDEO

A Do you ever play board games? When do
you play them? If not, why?

B Watch the video. Check (✓) the reasons the
people give for playing checkers.

Making friendships

Winning competitions

Learning to communicate

Taking a break from going online

Carrying on traditions

C Watch the video again and complete these
quotes.

1. “We know their family, we know their
friends, we know what they do and how
they in .”

2. “Checkers back a
camaraderie that you will never find
in life again.”

3. “I do not have a yet.
For many years in Tarragona, Spain
I like to think that I’m waiting until I get
local communities, called Castellers,
good .”
have come together and built these
4. “He’s a friend of mine, but on the
human towers.
, he wants to beat me bad.
Of course, he gets every
now and then.”

D Would you like to join the Checkers Club?
GOALS
Lesson A    Lesson B    How important is it to have local communities
/ Talk about your communities    / Describe trends and tendencies    like this? Discuss as a class.
/ Ask about free-time activities    / Argue for and against

Updated “Can Do” Language Goals
© National Geographic Learningencourage students to mindfully interact
with their learning and produce language
in real-world scenarios.

T2 |

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 4 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 5 ────────

WORLD LINK PROGRAM WALK-THROUGH

1A MAKING FRIENDS

VOCABULARY

A Read the article and find out what the numbers in the circles mean. In general, do
you think the numbers are true for you?

Listening and Reading
How large is your actual circle of
friends? 5? 15? More than 150?
input in Lessons A and
According to one theory, humans
can only keep in touch with a
5 15 50 500 5000
B preview the grammar
maximum community of 150 people
at any one time. So, while you might
structure students will
have thousands of so-called friends
from different walks of life, you only
study, building familiarity
have something in common with around 150 of them. If you were planning a party, that number
would be smaller—you’d invite about 50 friends and acquaintances. In the evenings and on
toward confident use.
the weekends, you probably hang out with about 15 on a regular basis. As for your close-knit
family and friends—most of us can count these meaningful relationships on one hand.

B Match the words and phrases in blue with these meanings.
1. a group of people    6. important and deep
2. the meaning is not really true    7. maintain contact
LISTENING
3. different backgrounds    8. close friends
A Look at the photo and read the caption below. Have you ever worn
4. connected by strong    9. people you know, but not
costumes like these? Why do you think people attend events like
relationships    close friends
Comic-Con?
5. shared with other people    10. spend free time with

B Identify a speaker. Listen to four interviews at a Comic-Con
C Work in pairs. Ask and answer these questions.
event. Match the speaker (1–4) to the statement. There is one extra
1. How large is your actual circle of friends?
statement. 2
WORD BANK
camaraderie trust
2. Where do you meet acquaintances and people from different walks of life?
a. This person fell in love at Comic-Con.
and friendship
3. Do you think you are part of a close-knit community?
b. It’s a chance to meet up with old friends.
between people who
spend a lot of time
4. How do you keep in touch with all your family and friends?
c. You can meet famous people and complete strangers.
together
5. Who is one person you have a meaningful relationship with?
d. All the latest computer games are available to try out.

e. It’s an opportunity to express yourself once a year.
D In pairs, discuss these topics and find at least five things you have in common
with each other.
C Listen again. Answer these questions. Circle Yes, No, or Don’t know. 2
• family and friends • local community • use of social media
1. Does Diego think that people are judged Yes / No / Don’t know
for who they are at Comic-Con?
• TV, films, books, music • sports and games • work and education
2. Do most of the people at Comic-Con Yes / No / Don’t know
come from similar backgrounds?
I have three brothers and
3. Does Stella always come to the event Yes / No / Don’t know
two sisters. Me, too.
with her close friends?

4. Has someone taken Stella’s photo Yes / No / Don’t know
4 | UNIT 1
this year?

5. Is the computer game voice-over artist Yes / No / Don’t know
at the event?

6. Does everyone wear a costume at Yes / No / Don’t know
Comic-Con?

7. Did Rachel and Alan start talking in the Yes / No / Don’t know
cafe when they first met?
Comic-Con conventions
around the world attract
8. Did they wear costumes at their wedding? Yes / No / Don’t know
hundreds of thousands
of people each year. They
D Work in pairs. Ask and answer these questions.
dress up as characters
1. In your school or place of work, do you think people can be
from their favorite books
themselves or are they judged?
and movies and have the
opportunity to meet some
2. Are you a member of a particular community, club, or group?
of the actors and authors.
If so, are its members from similar backgrounds or do
Shown below: London.
they come from different walks of life?

© National Geographic Learning
Lesson A | 5

Sample pages shown are from Level 4, Unit 1.
| T3

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 5 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 6 ────────

WORLD LINK PROGRAM WALK-THROUGH

The flexible grammar presentation
SPEAKING A cosplayer dressed as Captain
and communicative practice in the
America arrives at New York
Comic-Con.
A Shawna and Keith work in the same office. Listen to their
lesson, combined with the additional
conversation. Then answer the questions. 3

Shawna: Hi. How was your weekend?
presentation and practice support in the
Do anything fun?

Keith: Yeah, I did. Actually, it’s a bit embarrassing.
Grammar Reference appendix, is perfect
Shawna: Go on. Tell me!
for increasing classroom communication
Keith: Promise not to tell anyone who works in the office?

Shawna: I promise.
or “flipping” the classroom.
Keith: Well, a friend invited me to this event where
everyone dressed up as comic book characters.

Shawna: Oh, you mean Comic-Con! It’s a blast! Who did
you go as?

Keith: Well, there was a group of us, so we all went as a
superhero. I was Captain America.
Point-of-use
Shawna: You’re joking! I want to see photos!

Keith: I don’t have many. This is a picture that shows
pronunciation
us when we arrived.

supports confident
Shawna: You look amazing. Who are all these other people
with you?
communication.
Keith: They asked to have their photo taken with us.
There were thousands of people there and
everyone was so friendly. It was amazing!

Shawna: The next time you go, tell me!

1. Where did Keith go over the weekend?
GRAMMAR
2. Why do you think he doesn’t want Shawna to tell
anyone else?
A Read the Unit 1, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
exercises. Then do the exercises below.

B Practice the conversation with a partner.
SPEAKING STRATEGY 4
DEFINING RELATIVE CLAUSES
Omitting words
Main clause Relative clause
In everyday conversations with friends and
C Work in pairs. Imagine you share an office.
For things This is a photo that shows my family.
colleagues, we often omit words and shorten
Choose one of these events and create a new
sentences: Did you have a good weekend?
For people Don’t tell anyone who works in the office.
conversation similar to the one in A. Include some
Did you do anything fun?
of the useful expressions from the box.
For possession I have a friend whose family is a group of
Do you promise not to tell anyone?
musicians.
1. costume party
For places It’s an event where everyone dresses up.
2. a Carnival or Mardi Gras parade
USEFUL EXPRESSIONS 5
For time This was at the entrance when we arrived.
Have a good weekend / evening?
3. a 70’s party
NON-DEFINING RELATIVE CLAUSES
Do anything fun?
My brother, who’s an accountant, loves going to Comic-Con. (I have one brother.)
Promise not to tell anyone?
D Get together with another pair.
A friend invited me to . . . where everyone . . .
The whole performance was canceled, which was really annoying!
Pair 1: Perform your conversation for the other pair.
Who did you go as? / What did you wear?
Pair 2: Listen. Which useful expressions did you hear?
This picture / photo shows us when . . .
B PRONUNCIATION: Pausing The commas are missing in these
It was amazing! / It was a blast!
sentences with non-defining relative clauses. Listen to where the speaker
The next time you go, tell me!
pauses and write in the commas. Then listen again and repeat. 6
6 | UNIT 1
1. I’ve invited over 50 people to my party which is probably enough.
2. Miles who is probably my best friend can’t come to my wedding!
3. My father’s company which he set up thirty years ago is closing down.
4. Independence Day which is on September 7th in my country is so
much fun.

5. A so-called friend ate my sandwich which is really annoying!

C Work in pairs. First, individually write the names of an object, a famous
person, and an annual event or celebration in your country. Then, write a
definition for each one using a defining relative clause. Next, take turns
reading your definitions aloud. Can your partner guess the words?

It’s a thing that . . . It’s a person who . . . It’s an event where / when . . .

D Rewrite the description below. Make the description more natural and
more interesting by adding new information using relative clauses.

For example: On the weekend, a man, who had just started a new job,
moved into a new apartment, that was . . .
Updated Speaking
On the weekend, a man moved into a new apartment. He didn’t
Strategy features,
know anyone in the building. His neighbors invited him to their
party on the fifth floor. The party started at eight o’clock. He met
now with model audio,
lots of other people.

show students how
E In groups, take turns reading your new descriptions. How many new
relative clauses have your classmates added? Are they defining or
to move through
non-defining?

the stages of a
Lesson A | 7
conversation.
© National Geographic Learning
Designed and tested for the virtual classroom,
these exercises increase communication and
are supported with implementation
suggestions in the Teacher’s Book.

T4 |

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 6 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 7 ────────

WORLD LINK PROGRAM WALK-THROUGH

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Read the text below and answer the questions.
Updated “Active English”
1. What is the purpose of a Community Service Project? Who benefits?
sections bring together
2. How many relative clauses are there in the text? Underline them.

the Language Goals of
Developing a Community Service Project
the lesson in a variety of
Community service is work done by a person or group of people that benefits others. It is often
done near an area where you live, so it’s a great way to meet people from different walks of life
guided, communicative
and help your own community. The people who often benefit most include children and senior
citizens—and, of course, you also benefit by helping others and gaining work experience. It’s
exercises that teach
also a great way to make new friends. Here are six ideas for projects you could do:
learners to express
a. Organize a car wash and donate the    d. Paint over graffiti
profit to a charity    e. Go shopping for elderly people
themselves clearly.
b. Look after a neighbor’s pet when they    f. Plant trees in your local park
are away

c. Coach a youth sports team

B Work in pairs. Discuss and rank the community service projects in A in order of their usefulness
(1 = most useful, 6 = least useful). Think of another project that you and your friends could do in
your local area.

a.    c.    e.    g. Another project

b.    d.    f.
1B GENERATIONS
C Work in groups. Imagine your English class has the opportunity to do a community service project
and your school has offered its building for free.
VOCABULARY
1. Brainstorm ideas for different types of community service that would make good use of the school.
2. Choose the best idea and prepare a list of reasons why it’s a useful community project.
A Look at the results of a survey and discuss these questions.
1. Do you think any of the results are surprising? Why?
D Present each of your ideas in C to the class. Vote on which project is the best idea.
2. These results are from the US. How different do you think they would be in your country?
3. The chart doesn’t show results for Generation Z (people born after 1997). What do you think the
1A GOALS Now I can . . .
percentages would be for that generation?
Volunteers painting over
Talk about my communities    1. Yes, I can.    graffiti on a wall
Connectivity in the United States
Ask about free-time activities    2. Mostly, yes.
Generations . . . own a    . . . own a tablet . . . se social    . . . think the internet
3. Not really.
smartphone    computer    media    has mostly been
good for society

Millennials    93% 53% 86% 84%
Born 1981–1996

Generation X    90% 55% 76% 74%
Born 1965–1980

The Baby Boomers    68% 52% 59% 68%
Born 1946–1964

The Silent Generation 40% 33% 28% 63%
Born before 1946

Source: Pew Research Center, Survey in 2019

B Read these sentences about the chart. Write the names of the correct generations.
8 | UNIT 1
1. The overwhelming majority of Millennials and Generation X own a smartphone.
2. Just over two thirds of own one.
3. About three quarters of use social media and think the internet has been
good for society.

4. Approximately one third of own a tablet computer, whereas just over half of
own one.

5. Nearly two thirds of think the internet has mostly been good for society.

C Study the pairs of words. Do they have a similar meaning or a different
WORD BANK
meaning? Write S or D.
generation people born
S    and living at about the
1. about / approximately
same time
2. majority / minority
tendency when you often
3. huge / overwhelming
behave or do things in a
certain way
4. connected / separated
connectivity the state of
being connected to others
D Carry out a similar survey by asking the four questions from the chart.
fractions one fifth, one
quarter, a third, a half
For example: Do you own a smartphone? Do you think that the internet
has been good . . .?

E Report the results of your survey to the class.
© National Geographic LearningThe majority of us own . . . Just over a third of us . . .
Lesson B | 9

| T5

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 7 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 8 ────────

WORLD LINK PROGRAM WALK-THROUGH

Updated Reading selections more
closely reinforce the language goals,
vocabulary, and grammar of the unit.

5But even if the National Parks are now
one-week vacation without connectivity. For baby
READING
boomers, the figure was exactly a third, at 33%.
embracing technology, that doesn’t mean wiring
For Jonathan Jarvis, director of the National Park
up the parks so you can get a signal on your
Service, this presents a challenge. “Young people
phone. Even after a sublime first day spent on the
are more separated from the natural world than
river and an evening feast of prime rib cooked
perhaps any generation before them.”
over a gas stove, Casey and I experience a bit of
CAN THE MILLENNIALS
internet withdrawal.
4But rather than rage against the times, the
6“We should just let it go,” I suggested. “Try to be
National Parks are now attempting to attract
mindful. Stare at the stars. Drift.”
more school-aged “Generation Z” visitors by
UNPLUG IN THE PARKS?
joining the digital age. Visitors to their website
7“I get it,” replies Casey, “this thing about being
can take a virtual tour of every national park,
As Timothy Egan sets off through the Grand Canyon, how will his millennial
disconnected. But everyone I know likes to
and their social media targets a generation that
son manage without connectivity?
share—publicly—what we’re doing. We are social
spends at least 50 hours a week in front of a
travelers. If you can’t share it now, is it really
1On our journey through the Grand Canyon,
screen—for children 11 to 14 years old, it’s nearly
internet to find the best Mexican restaurant, and
happening? Just a thought.” 7
12 hours a day.
me and my son, Casey, will see ancient fossils
used our smartphone’s GPS to guide us back
from a time when the rock was under the ocean.
to our hotel. Now for the diet: a fast from our
We’ll take a boat down the Colorado River and,
devices—our overconnectedness. What could
A Answer the questions in pairs.
D Understand words
ACADEMIC SKILL
at night, we’ll sleep under the sky and look at
be a better antidote to our eight-second attention
from context.
1. Look at the photo. How are the people
Understanding
the universe. As we get ready to leave, my son
span than a landscape that is nearly two billion
Circle the words
words from context
connected? How do they feel about it?
complains he has no phone service and can’t
years old?
and phrases that
When you read a text
2. Read the title of the article. What do
check the score for a game. I tell him that’s a
with new words, try to
can replace the
3I sense that Casey is not convinced. And in that,
you think millennials are unplugged and
guess their meaning
underlined words.
good thing.
he is not alone. A recent survey reported that
disconnected from in the parks?
from context before
Use the paragraph
2Casey is a millennial, in his mid-20s. I’m a baby
you look them up in a
the overhwelming majority of millennials—71%
numbers to help you
dictionary. Then try to
boomer. My generation loves the national parks
—said they would be “very uncomfortable” on a
B Read the article about a father (F) and son (S).
find them.
use the words in your
Who feels the following? Write F, S, or both.
to death. His generation will have to save them in
own sentences.
Paragraph 2
the future. The night before, we gorged on social
1. He is excited about the journey.
1. I like the national parks a lot.
media, sent our final text messages, used the
2. He spent the night before online.
2. I’m not hungry today! I ate so much ice cream
3. He isn’t sure about not having the
last night!
internet for a few days.
3. Today I’m going to eat very little for a day
4. After the first day, he wishes he could
or so.
connect.
Paragraph 4

4. Young people often get angry about the age
C Read the article again and answer these
they are growing up in.
questions in your notebook.
Paragraph 5
1. What does the father hope to see and do on
5. Wow! The view from our hotel is amazingly
their journey?
beautiful!
2. Why does his son complain?
Paragraph 6
Young adults hold hands at a campground
3. What two generations do they each belong to?
6. You need to be more aware of other
in Joshua Tree National Park, California.
4. Where do they eat the night before they
people’s feelings.
leave?

5. What do the percentages 71% and 33%
E Read the last paragraph in the article again.
refer to?
Discuss the question in groups. Does
6. How are the National Parks trying to attract
everyone you know like to share—publicly—
Generation Z?
what they’re doing? What are the advantages
and disadvantages of sharing online?

10 | UNIT 1 Lesson B | 11

© National Geographic Learning

T6 |

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 8 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 9 ────────

WORLD LINK PROGRAM WALK-THROUGH

LISTENING

A You are going to hear a news report about the community in the
photo. What do you think the word indigenous means? What other
words might describe this community?

B Listen for the main idea. Listen to the news report. What do you
think is the main message of the report? 8

1. Modern technology has a negative effect on traditional
communities.

2. Traditional communities fail because they don’t use technology.
3. Modern technology can be helpful in traditional communities.

C Listen again and answer the questions by writing notes. 8
ACADEMIC SKILL
New Academic Skill
Note-taking
Where is the news report
from?
When you take notes,
features develop critical
listen for key words,
What technology does
such as verbs and
Rumilda use?
nouns. The speaker
thinking and study skills.
What does a “forest
stresses these types of
monitor” do?
words.
What is changing the
community’s land?

What did the forest
provide them in the past?

GRAMMAR
D How do you think digital and modern technology have improved
people’s lives in your country or local community? Tell the class.
A Read the Unit 1, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
Members of an indigenous
exercises. Then do the exercises below.
community called the Mbya
SUBJECT-VERB AGREEMENT
Guaraní in Paraguay
Subject + singular verb

Everyone / Someone / No one has a laptop.
Each / Every student speaks two languages.
One of / None of our community uses a cell phone.
Two hundred kilometers / miles / meters isn’t a long way. (with quantities and amounts)
The United States / The United Nations has many states / members. (with plural countries /
organizations)
Subject + plural verb

None of / Some of my family use technology.
Both my sister and my brother live with me in this apartment.
Subject + singular verb or plural verb

Our community lives in this region. (= the community as a whole)
Our community live in houses around this region. (= individual members of the community)
The majority of my friends spend time on social media. (majority of + plural count noun + plural verb)
The majority of our time is wasted on social media. (majority of + noncount noun + singular verb)

B Check (✓) the correct sentences and correct any mistakes.
1. One of my apps aren’t working properly.
2. None of my class know how to answer this question.
3. The whole family is going on vacation.
4. Not everyone speak Spanish in Paraguay.
12 | UNIT 1
5. One half of the students own a tablet.
6. The country doesn’t agree on this political issue.
7. The country has a public holiday today.
8. The majority of millennials has grown up using a cell phone.

C Match the sentences.
1. My soccer team is ready to start the game.
a. Two players are late.
2. The team aren’t all here yet.
b. Two players forgot theirs.
3. The team feels optimistic.
c. Everyone is here.
4. The team don’t all have their uniforms.
d. They think they can win.

D Complete these sentences with information that is true for you, using an appropriate
verb. Make two sentences true and one sentence false.

1. My family .
2. The majority of my friends .
3. One of my favorite is .

© National Geographic Learning
E Work in pairs. Take turns reading your sentences and guess which one is false.

Lesson B | 13

Games are
incorporated to make
learning grammar and
vocabulary in context fun.
| T7

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 9 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 10 ────────

WORLD LINK PROGRAM WALK-THROUGH

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Look at the photo below and read the caption. Do you think the older fans are
“Active English” sections in
enjoying the moment more than the other fans? Why? Tell the class.
Lesson B feature writing
B WRITING Read the Unit 1 Writing Model in the appendix and answer the
and an extended
questions below.

1. Is the writer for or against digital communities?
communication task.
2. How many arguments does the writer give for her opinion?
This scaffolded sequence
3. Overall, do you agree or disagree with her views?
of exercises gives learners
C Work in groups. Brainstorm arguments for digital communities in response to the
a reason to communicate
writer of the paragraph in B.

in a personalized way
D Choose the three best arguments from C and write your own paragraph.
and supports them through
E Work in two groups. You are going to have a classroom debate and then
the process.
vote on this topic: “Digital communities and social media have had a positive
impact on humans.” One group is for digital communities and social media.
The other group is against.

1. Each group prepares its list of arguments either for or against. You have
five minutes to prepare.

2. Each group takes turns presenting their main arguments. Then they
discuss and ask questions about their opinions.
GLOBAL VOICES
3. Take a class vote.

A Watch the video. Number the events described (from 1 to 5) in the order you see them.
1B GOALS Now I can . . .
1
a. K. David Harrison introducing his organization and its purpose
1. Yes, I can.
Describe trends and tendencies
b. Young students learning words from their ancestors’ language
2. Mostly, yes.
Argue for and against
c. A map of the world showing areas where languages are dying out
3. Not really.
d. Someone looking up words on the Talking Dictionaries website
As a movie star arrives, almost everyone
e. A father and son recording words and phrases from their language
is more interested in their phone than the
moment.
B Watch the video again. Circle the correct answer.
1. What is the main aim of the Living Tongues Organization?
a. To teach disappearing    b. To preserve endangered    c. To save traditional
languages    languages    communities

2. What is David Harrison’s opinion of technology?
a. That it is good for    b. That it is a very positive    c. That it is a positive thing
teaching language    thing    in his work

3. Who usually records the endangered languages?
a. Harrison and his    b. The people who    c. Teams of experts
colleagues    speak it

4. How do local communities benefit from the Talking Dictionaries website and app?
a. They can share local    b. They learn how to use    c. They share their
news and information    modern technology    language and culture
with each other    with the wider world
14 | UNIT 1

C Work in pairs. David Harrison’s Living Tongues Organization sometimes asks people
to donate money so they can save languages. Imagine you are going to advertise the
work of Harrison’s organization in order to raise money. Which benefits would you
emphasize in your advertising? What slogan can you use in your advertisement?

For improved output, an
updated Writing section
is now supported by a
new appendix that
features annotated
models.

© National Geographic Learning
K. David Harrison and Greg
Anderson interview Ichiro
John, a Mwoakilloan elder.

Lesson B | 15

New “Global Voices” sections at the end of each
unit allow students to demonstrate achievement
of the Language Goals by first watching speakers
model the language in a new video program and
then speaking the language themselves in the
related exercises, helping them to personalize
T8 |    topics and produce language with confidence.

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 10 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 11 ────────

WORLD LINK PROGRAM WALK-THROUGH

New “Real World Link” sections
after every three units feature
projects that practice the
language in collaborative,
relevant settings, helping
learners to review and
reinforce language lessons.

REAL WORLD LINK WORLD FESTIVALS UNITS 1–3
w

A Read about three festivals and complete the notes in the chart.
Children enjoying ice slides
at the Annual Snow Festival    Time of year and Who is it for? What makes it    What is the
In Sapporo, Japan    location?    special?    entertainment?

Spring in the city
Fallas
of Valencia

No money, no
Burning Man
cell phones

People from Japan
Snow Festival
and overseas

B Work in groups. Describe a festival or event in your town, city, or region.
Talk about:

• the time of year and the location
• who it is for
• what makes it special
• what you can see and do

C Work in groups and plan your own festival. Brainstorm ideas and try to
make the following decisions.

• What time of year does it take place?
• Where is it?
• Who is it for?
• What makes it special or different?
• What entertainment is there? (e.g., music, art, yoga)
• Other ideas?
Fallas Festival

In the spring, the Spanish city of Valencia celebrates a huge street festival. Known as Fallas (in
D You Choose You need to advertise your new festival. Choose an option
Spanish) or Falles (in the local Valencian dialect), it lasts for five days and nights. The Valencians
and create your advertisement.
and thousands of tourists enjoy live music, theater, fireworks, and parades with costumes. Then,
Option 1 Write a description of the festival for a website.
on the final night, different local communities bring out huge sculptures that they have created and
set fire to them.
Option 2 Record a short video to promote the festival.
Burning Man Festival
Option 3 Make a slideshow with photos and a voice narration.
Every summer, 70,000 people from different walks of life build a temporary city of tents in the
middle of the Nevada desert for the “Burning Man Festival.” Everyone is responsible for providing
E Read or watch another group’s advertisement for their festival. Answer the
the entertainment and bringing what they need—including food and water. Nothing is for sale, so
questions and tell another group your answers.
money is useless. And cell phones don’t work because there is no connectivity in the desert.
1. From the advertisement, did you understand the festival and who it is
Sapporo Snow Festival
for?
The very first Sapporo Snow Festival was started in 1950 by a group of high school students. It
2. Do you think there is something new or original about the festival?
has since grown into a major international winter festival. For 7 days, around 2 million people from
3. Would you like to go to the festival? Why or why not?
Japan and overseas visit Sapporo to look at hundreds of snow sculptures that might feature a
special event or a famous place or person. There are also different types of snow slides and snow
F Work with your group. Discuss the feedback in E and decide if you need to
mazes, which are popular with children.
change or add something to your festival.

44 | UNITS 1–3 45

New “You Choose”
exercises develop
© National Geographic Learning
learner autonomy.

| T9

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 11 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 12 ────────

MAKE TEACHING AND LEARNING

EASIER AND
MORE ENGAGING
WITH WORLD LINK
World Link provides language instruction in print and digital that’s
perfect for all classrooms.

TEACH
lively, engaging lessons that get
students speaking.
The Classroom Presentation Tool helps
teachers to present the Student’s Book
pages, play audio and video, and increase
participation through content and
exercises that get students talking!

A fun, optional video program meets a
variety of teaching and learning needs.

> Increase meaningful communication in
class by giving students opportunities to
connect about something interesting, like
PLACE
stories from National Geographic Explorers
in the new Global Voices videos.
students simply and reliably.
Adaptive and mobile-friendly, the
© National Geographic Learning
> Boost learner confidence by providing
National Geographic Learning Online
natural models of spoken English.
Placement Test places students in the
correct level of World Link, aligns to the
> Entertain and engage learners in fun,
CEFR, and delivers a skill-specific diagnostic
familiar situations that present language
report for each test taker.
in the contexts where learners will use it
most frequently.

T10 |

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 12 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 13 ────────

STAY CONNECTED AND
DEVELOP TEACHING SKILLS.

Sign up for the National Geographic
Learning Webinar Series to develop
virtual teaching skills, participate
in World Link-specific professional
development, and engage with a
variety of other timely topics.

ELTNGL.com/webinars
LEARN AND TRACK
with My World Link Online Practice and
Visit National Geographic Learning’s
Student’s eBook.
In Focus blog for a variety of 21st
For students, the mobile-friendly platform
century instructional tips from experts
optimizes learning and practice through
in English Language Teaching.
customized reteaching and adaptive
practice. For instructors, progress-tracking is
ELTNGL.com/infocus
made easy through the shared gradebook.

/ ELTNGL
ASSESS
learner performance and progress with
the ExamView® Assessment Suite.
For formative and summative assessment,
teachers create and customize tests and© National Geographic Learning
quizzes easily using the ExamView®
Assessment Suite, available online.

| T11

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 13 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 14 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

PART ONE: ENGAGING IN PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT

A good English language teacher knows all the
This section of the World Link Teacher’s Book
grammar rules of English.
is designed to help you make your World Link
textbook part of your professional development.
1 2 3 4
Although English language teachers often do not
think of their textbooks as part of their professional
A good English language teacher is aware of his or
development, we believe that the World Link
her students’ feelings about English language and
textbooks can and should be part of it, and in this
culture.
section, we show you how.
1 2 3 4
The exercises in this section were designed so you
can complete all of them individually, but if you can
A good English language teacher is aware of his
find a colleague to do them together with you, you
or her own feelings about English language and
will both learn more.
culture.

In the first part of this section, Engaging in
1 2 3 4
Professional Development, we will look at the
A good English language teacher gives clear and
following questions:
concise feedback.
What kind of an English language teacher are you?
1 2 3 4
What does “professional development” mean to
you?
A good English language teacher loves English.

1 2 3 4
A DESCRIBING YOURSELF
There are many more qualities and characteristics
At the beginning of a course, we often ask our
of a good English language teacher, but the
students to describe themselves, but how often do
important point is to know what we mean when we
we describe ourselves?
think or talk about being a good English language
teacher.
TASK 1
Write an X on each of the lines below, nearest to the
TASK 3
end that best describes the kind of English language
Complete the statement below in 50 words or fewer,
teacher you are.
and share your completed statement with another
new teacher experienced
teacher who has completed the same exercise.
teacher
In my particular teaching and learning context, the
focused on focused on
ideal English language teacher is someone who ...
structure meaning

teacher- studentcentered centered

aim for aim for
accuracy fluency

teach for teach for
B STARTING YOUR OWN
examination communicative
© National Geographic Learning
AUTOBIOGRAPHY
purposes purposes
Many English language teachers ask their students
to write about themselves, and most English
TASK 2
language teachers ask their students to do fill-
Circle a number for each statement that follows, to
in-the-blank activities. But how often do we write
show how you feel about each statement.
descriptions of ourselves and fill in the blanks?
1 = Strongly Disagree    3 = Agree

2 = Disagree    4 = Strongly Agree

T12 |

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 12 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 15 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

use a lot of pictures, drawings, photographs, and
TASK 4
other images in our classrooms.
Fill in the blanks in the short passage below.

I first became interested in being an English
TASK 6
language teacher in (time
In the box below draw a small, simple picture that
/ place). My first position as an English language
shows what you do and how you feel about being
teacher was in (place). I felt
an English language teacher. Using a spider map
(feelings) before my first
(see Teacher’s Resources on the companion site for
lesson. The students were
an example), write one key word or phrase in the
(adjective), and I felt
center of the box, then draw lines coming out from
(feelings) when that first lesson was over! I now feel
that center, with a word or phrase at the end of each
when a lesson is over.
line that describes what you do and how you feel
about being an English language teacher.
I enjoy being an English language teacher because
(reason). One of the main
challenges I face as an English language teacher
is (challenge). If I had the
chance, I would make the following changes to
my life and work as an English language teacher:
.

This exercise is called Starting Your Own
Autobiography because it is just a beginning. You
could continue, and write about your first day, first
week, or first semester as an English language
teacher. Writing about our own early experiences as
a teacher is one way to reflect on those times and
to think about how we’ve changed since then—and
what has remained unchanged.

So far, you have completed four short, simple
tasks to help you think about the kind of English
language teacher you are. It’s important to know
As we explained at the start of this section, you can
who we are and what we do before we try to
complete exercises alone, but if you can find one
develop professionally, because all professional
or more teachers to do them with, you will all learn
development is based on personal development.
more. The Task 6 activity is a good example. To
learn the most about yourself from this activity, you
Try the next two tasks to help you describe who
and another teacher should each draw your spider
you are and what you do as an English language
map on large, blank sheets of paper, then show
teacher.
them to each other and talk about what each picture
represents.
TASK 5
Imagine you meet someone at a party who’s never
heard of teaching English as a second or foreign
C WHAT IS PROFESSIONAL
language. They ask you what you do, and you tell
DEVELOPMENT?
them, “I’m an English language teacher.” They reply,
There is a strong link between personal and
“An English language teacher? What’s an English
professional development. So, it will help you to
language teacher? What do English language
write your own personal definition of professional
teachers do? What do you do?”
© National Geographic Learningdevelopment here:
How would you reply?
TASK 7
For me, “professional development” means ...

As English language teachers, we work mostly
with words. But English language teachers (and
students) are also often very visual, and many of us

| T13

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 13 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 16 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

It is important to stress that “professional development”
❑ Writing a “teaching philosophy” (a statement of
does not only mean going to conferences, reading
your pedagogic beliefs)
books, or writing papers. Although these are very
Tried and learned
helpful professional development activities, they are
just three possible ways from a large number and a
wide variety of different ways, which we will learn more
about in this section of the book.
Not tried because

TASK 8
Check (✓) the professional development activities
The first few tasks in this section helped you to
that you have tried. If you have tried the activity,
think about who you are and what you do. Then we
what did you learn? If you have not tried this activity
asked you to think about what you understand by the
before, why not?
term professional development, what developmental
❑ Keeping a teaching journal/diary
activities you’ve engaged in, and what you have
learned from those activities.
Tried and learned
Let’s now return to the question we asked at the very
beginning: What is professional development?
Not tried because
Professional development is anything you choose
to do because you want to be better at what you
do. Choice and trust are two essential features of
❑ Watching yourself teaching on video
professional development. You can be required to
Tried and learned
have another teacher in your classroom, observing
you. But if you didn’t choose to have that person
there, and if you don’t trust the person, there will be
Not tried because
little or no development.

Professional development is also about change. But
it’s not always about changing what you do. It can
❑ Watching another teacher teaching
be about changing the way you think about what
Tried and learned
you do. In this section, you have completed various
tasks. If you carried out these activities carefully and
thoughtfully, then you were engaged in professional
development. If you learned anything about your
Not tried because
professional self from doing these activities, then you
were engaged in professional development.
❑ Having another teacher watch you teaching
Drawing relationships: Bringing together the
Different parts of our work
Tried and learned

As we mentioned earlier, English language teachers
(and learners) are often very visual. So, another way
Not tried because
of thinking about professional development is to
use simple shapes to show complex relationships.
Here’s an example, based on three key aspects of
❑ Teaching together with another teacher
professional development we’ve discussed:
Tried and learned
Trust
© National Geographic Learning
Not tried because

Professional
❑ Creating a teaching portfolio    Development

Tried and learned
Choice Change

Not tried because

T14 |

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 14 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 17 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

One interpretation of this diagram might be: Trusting
Analogies are powerful ways of helping us
yourself and others, engaging in professional
understand what we think and mean and say. For
development because you choose to do so,
example, we could say, “Being an English language
and willingness to change are all necessary for
teacher is like being the captain of a ship, because
professional development to take place.
we are all working together on a voyage of discovery.”

Another example:
TASK 11
Textbook
Complete the same sentence, but with your own
analogy:

In my teaching and learning context, being an
English language teacher is like
English Language
Teaching and Learning

Teacher Student
because

An interpretation of the diagram above might be:
English language teachers and students work
An activity like this can be part of your professional
together, using English language textbooks, to
development because, even though it seems short
teach and learn the language.
and simple, it may require a lot of thought to create
a good analogy and then describe it in clear and
TASK 9
concise language.
Try to put into your own words what this next diagram
Change anD professional DevelopMent
shows:
Course
As we said earlier, development is all about
change—changing what we do, how we do it,
and how we think about what we do. Before we
can engage in professional development, we
should take some time to look at our feelings about
English Language
change.
Syllabus

TASK 12
Lesson Activity
Circle a number for each statement below to show
In professional development, teachers often talk
how you feel about the statement.
about reflective practice. This means thinking about
1 = Strongly Disagree
what we do so we can understand more, and then
2 = Disagree
make changes so we can do what we do better.
3 = Agree
4 = Strongly Agree
TASK 10
Think of three aspects of what you do as an English
Change is difficult.
language teacher, and label the three corners of the
triangle below. In the middle of the triangle, write
1 2 3 4
what it is that connects the three corners, then write
Change takes a long time.
a brief description of how the three are connected.

1 2 3 4

Change takes a lot of energy.
© National Geographic Learning
1 2 3 4

Change is complex.

1 2 3 4

Making ConneCtions: piCturing professional
Change is painful.
DevelopMent
1 2 3 4
English language teachers also often make use of
Change is usually negative.
analogies in their teaching so that simple language
can be used to express complex thoughts.
1 2 3 4
| T15

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 15 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 18 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

Once you have read all the statements on page T15
D THE LANGUAGE OF PROFESSIONAL
and circled a number for each one, add up your total
DEVELOPMENT
score. If you have a total score of more than 20, you
Like all professions, teaching has its own language
have probably had a lot of experience of dealing with
which teachers can use to talk about teaching.
challenging change. If you have a total of between
Within this language of the profession there are a
12 and 15, the changes you have experienced may
number of words and phrases that are commonly
have been largely positive, and with a score of 10
used when talking about professional development.
or less, you may have experienced relatively little
change or few changes, so far.
As a language teacher you know that when learning
a language, it is not necessary to remember all
Most of us tend to naturally resist change, as we are
the meanings of all the words, but it is important
often creatures of habit—we like things to stay the
to be familiar with them. This task has, then, been
same. But change is one of the only things we can
created to help you become more familiar with
be sure of in modern life. It is sometimes even said
some commonly used terms related to teacher
that “change is the only constant”!
professional development.

TASK 13
As English language teachers, we often ask our
Think of an important change in your life—either
students to complete “matching” activities, linking
personal or professional. Was it difficult and
a word with its meaning. So, let’s do one of those
complicated? Did it take a lot of time and energy?
activities here.
Are things better now, because of the change?
TASK 14
Make a few brief notes about this change. How
Match some simple definitions with some of
would you describe it to a friend? Once you have
the words and phrases most commonly used to
made a few notes, use these to describe your
describe different approaches to professional
change to a friend or colleague, and ask them to do
development for language teachers. (Check your
the same with you.
answers on page T22.)

worD or phrase

1. Case studies
2. Action research
3. Teaching portfolio
4. Mentoring
Change may be difficult, and it may even be
5. Development
painful, but the one thing worse than changing is
not changing. As teachers, we are preparing our
6. Reflective practice
students for a constantly changing world. If we
7. Teaching journal
are to help them, we must be willing and able to
change, grow, and develop. It is even possible that
8. Shock language
change is at the heart of all teaching and learning.
9. Peer observation
Here are some ways to make change less difficult:
10. Team teaching
11. Training
1. Break it down into small steps.
12. Coaching
2. Set yourself realistic, achievable goals at each
step.
13. Awareness
3. Expect resistance and identify where there will
© National Geographic Learning14. Attitude
be areas of resistance.

4. Think of ways to overcome this resistance; for
example, think of the benefits of the change.

5. Allow enough time for each step to be
completed.

6. Reward yourself as you achieve each goal
and complete each step.

T16 |

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 16 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 19 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

a. Structured, systematic ways of thinking
TASK 15
Circle a number for each of the statements that
about what we do and who we are
follow to show whether each reason for engaging in
b. A diary of significant events and moments
professional development is important for you or not.
in our teaching day
1 = Not Important
c. Short stories based on real teaching and
2 = Important
learning events with different endings
3 = Very Important
d. Sudden and complete immersion in a new
and unfamiliar language
To keep up to date with new developments in ELT

e. Being conscious of your psychological
1 2 3
state and of your external environment
To maintain an interest in and enthusiasm for
f. A set of skills acquired for the completion
teaching
of particular tasks
1 2 3
g. Two (or more) teachers observing each
To keep our teaching creative and enjoyable
other’s teaching and giving feedback

h. A collection of documents and texts that
1 2 3
illustrate different aspects of our work
To meet and exchange ideas with other teachers
i. Two (or more) teachers planning,
1 2 3
preparing, and teaching together
To develop new skills needed for new technology
j. A senior teacher helps a junior teacher to
develop his or her knowledge and skills
1 2 3
k. A structured, step-by-step investigation
To avoid teacher burnout
of some aspect of our teaching, our
students, and so on
1 2 3

l. Two teachers at the same level help each
To increase and improve job security
other to develop in a number of different
1 2 3
and agreed-upon areas
To be promoted to a more senior position
m. Becoming better at what you do through
growth and change
1 2 3
n. Ways of understanding and responding to
To improve salary and status
ourselves, others, and events
1 2 3
E PAINLESS PROFESSIONAL
To learn about new approaches to English language
DEVELOPMENT: IS IT REALLY
teaching and learning
POSSIBLE?
There are many reasons why many English
1 2 3
language teachers do not engage in as much
There are many other reasons for engaging in
professional development as they might like to do.
professional development. Can you identify some of
As we discussed earlier, development requires
them?
change, and change can be difficult. Two other
© National Geographic Learning
common problems are a lack of time and a lack
of money. What are some of the obstacles to
professional development that you face in your
teaching and learning context?

Although there may be challenges to overcome,
In the same way that change does not have to be
there are many reasons why we should engage in
painful, professional development does not necessarily
professional development.
need a lot of additional time and money. It is possible
to engage in professional development by doing
what we are already doing, but doing it with more
awareness and more reflection than we usually do.

| T17

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 17 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 20 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

2. Deciding which textbook to use is in itself
F MAKING YOUR TEXTBOOK
a professional decision, drawing on your
PART OF YOUR PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
knowledge, skills, and experience.
To review some of the main points we have
3. The way in which a textbook is used—
discussed so far:
which units are used, which are not, what
supplementary material you provide, and so
Professional development is anything you choose to
forth—also requires a lot of knowledge, skills,
do because you want to be better at what you do.
and experience.
Professional development does not only mean
going to conferences, reading books, or writing
papers. There are many different ways to grow
PART TWO: PURSUING
professionally.
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
USING YOUR TEXTBOOK
We also touched upon various types of professional
development activities, such as the following:
At the end of Part One, we said:
Teaching journal    Team teaching
Careful and thoughtful use of any kind of teaching
Case studies    Mentoring
material can be part of a teacher’s professional
Action research    Coaching
development process.
Teaching portfolio    Peer observation
Also in Part One, we defined reflective practice as
a set of structured and systematic ways of thinking
But one method that few English language teachers
about what we do as English language teachers,
think of is using their English language textbook as
including the ways in which we use materials.
part of their professional development.

Reflective practice is an important component of
In these pages, you have so far completed
professional development, and can be thought of as
15 different tasks. If you completed each of these
a kind of “stepping back.” As we do this, we create
tasks carefully and thoughtfully, you were actively
the necessary distance to see ourselves, and what
engaged in professional development.
we do, more clearly.
But what about the textbook itself? How can an
If you take time to reflect on the ways in which you
English language textbook be part of an English
use your English language textbook, you can make
language teacher’s professional development?
this part of your professional development. Part
Most English language teachers do not think of their
Two: Pursuing Professional Development Using Your
textbooks as tools for professional development.
Textbook has been created and designed to help
Some of the reasons are:
you do this.

1. Textbooks are used to teach students, so they
At the end of Part One, we also said:
are not thought of as ways for teachers to learn
Deciding which textbook to use is in itself a
about teaching.
professional decision, drawing on your knowledge,
skills, and experience.
2. Textbooks are part of our regular, routine,
everyday classroom work.
It is true that not all English language teachers
3. Professional development is still often thought
are allowed to choose the textbooks they believe
would work best for them and for their students.
of as doing something different, something
Many teachers are simply given books selected by
“extra,” or going somewhere else, away from
someone else, or textbooks assigned according
© National Geographic Learning
where we are now.
to standardized, national exams. But even if we do
But here are some reasons why you should think
not choose the textbook we work with, there are
of your textbooks as a part of your professional
ways, even in this situation, to create opportunities
development.
for professional development. In Part Two, we will
explore some of these opportunities.
1. Careful and thoughtful use of any kind of
If you do decide or help to decide which English
teaching material can be part of a teacher’s
language textbooks you and your students use,
professional development process.
then you are making important decisions because
the textbooks we choose and use can directly
affect the quality and quantity of English language
teaching and learning in our classrooms.
T18 |

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 18 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 21 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

If we read a short article about how to evaluate
A WHAT IS TEACHING?
textbooks, so that our decisions are informed not only
TASK 16
by our knowledge, skills, and experiences, but also
In the space below, write your own personal
by a systematic way of assessing textbooks, then we
definition of teaching.
are also engaged in professional development.

Teaching is ...
Thinking about the decisions we make when we
select an English language textbook can become
part of our professional development. But once the
decision about which textbook to use has been
made, there are many other decisions that need to
be made as well.

There are as many different meanings of teaching
as there are teachers, because teaching—like
C SHARING AND CHARTING YOUR
learning—is a personal experience. As it is a unique
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
experience, it is never exactly the same for any
These activities are designed so that they can be
two teachers or for any two students. Compare
carried out by one person, but as teaching and
your definition with the description below of how
learning are interactive events, you will learn more
teaching and learning happens.
from these activities if you work on them with another
teacher, or with a group of teachers, that you know
Teaching and learning are the result of a series of
and trust.
choices and decisions, made by the teacher and by
the students. Sometimes, the choices and decisions
Sharing is an important part of your professional
are made together, between students and teachers,
development. Even if you are all using different
and sometimes they are made independently.
English language textbooks, you can still learn
Teaching—like learning—is about making choices
a lot from each other by exchanging ideas and
and making decisions.
experiences, as the challenges you face and the
decisions you make are often similar.
In a single English language lesson, the teacher—
and the students—may make hundreds of moment-
We have left spaces for you to write your responses
to-moment choices and decisions.
to the different tasks and activities in this section for
two reasons.
B MAKING CHOICES AND DECISIONS
First, your notes will help you share your thoughts
ABOUT TEXTBOOKS AS PART OF OUR
with other teachers. But your notes may also form
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
an important part of documenting your professional
Although choices and decisions are similar, they are
development, even if you work by yourself.
not exactly the same. For example, in an English
Development, growth, and change—like teaching
language class, a teacher may choose between
and learning—are often invisible, so it is important
one student and another, both of whom have raised
to keep a record of your development, for yourself
their hands to answer a question. But decisions in
and for others.
classrooms are often a little more complicated, for
example, deciding whether or not to continue with
D COMPARING TEXTBOOKS
a particular activity, as your decision here will affect
the timing for the rest of the lesson.
TASK 17
If you decided to use this World Link textbook, on
In the English language classroom, there are so
what did you base that decision?
many decisions being made that teachers are
unaware of many—or even most—of them. But away
© National Geographic LearningI decided to use this World Link textbook because ...
from the classroom, we can reflect on our decisions
so we can understand better why we decided to
follow one course of action rather than another.

So, if we think carefully about why we decide to use
one textbook over another, we are engaged in a
professional development process.

If we think and talk with other teachers about
the strengths and weaknesses of one textbook
compared to another, we are engaged in
If the decision to use this textbook was made by
professional development.
someone else, talk with them about that decision.

| T19

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 19 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 22 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

Q3. Can you name all the parts of Lesson A in the
TASK 18
right order?
Think of some other English language textbooks you
have used recently. How is this World Link textbook
1.
similar to those other textbooks, and in what ways is
it different from those textbooks?
2.
Similarities
3.
1.
4.
2.
5.
3.
6.
Differences
Q4. True or False? The second part of each unit is
called Lesson B, and is made up of six main
1.
parts.
2.

3.
Q5. Can you name all the parts of Lesson B in the
right order?
A good English language textbook should help the
teacher and the students learn more, and learn
1.
more effectively and more enjoyably. Your textbook
should add to your lesson, not detract from it.
2.

3.
TASK 19
How could this World Link textbook help develop
4.
your English teaching?
5.

6.

Q6. Can you give the unit number and title of two of
the units in your World Link textbook?

Unit number:

Unit title:
E GETTING TO KNOW YOUR WORLD
LINK TEXTBOOK
Unit number:
When we make decisions, we generally base
Unit title:
those decisions on our knowledge, skills, and
experiences.
Q7a. How many Review Units are there in this
textbook?
If we are to make the most of our textbooks and use
them as part of our professional development, we
must have a thorough knowledge of the textbook.
Q7b. How many units are reviewed in each Review
Unit?
How well do you know your World Link textbook?

TASK 20
Complete this short quiz and see how much you
© National Geographic LearningQ8. Who are the writers of this textbook?
know!

Q1. How many units are there in your World Link
textbook?
Q9. Where, when, and by whom was this textbook
published?
Q2. True or False? The first part of each unit is called
Lesson A and is made up of six main parts.

T20 |

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 20 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 23 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

F EXPLORING OUR DECISIONS BY
G ADOPTING AND ADAPTING YOUR
ASKING QUESTIONS
ENGLISH LANGUAGE TEXTBOOK
The key to making your textbooks part of your
The questions in Task 21 are related to adapting
professional development is to keep asking
your World Link textbook to your local teaching
questions that explore the decisions you make as
and learning context, as every student and every
you use the textbook.
teacher is unique, as we discussed earlier, and
every teaching and learning context is unique.
Before you use a textbook, it is important to
Because of this uniqueness, once a textbook has
consider it in its entirety, then make decisions about
been chosen, or adopted, it may also then need to
individual units, and finally make decisions about
be “localized,” or adapted.
the different parts within each unit.

TASK 22
TASK 21
What are some aspects of your English language
Here are some examples of questions you should
teaching and learning environment that make it
consider before starting to use your World Link
different from others?
textbook.

Q1. Do you plan to use all 12 of the units in the
textbook? If so, why? If not, which units will you
not use, and why?

TASK 23
Describe the students with whom you expect you will
be using this book.

Q2. Do you intend to use the units in the order in
Q1. First language:
which they are presented? If yes, why?
Q2. Age range:

Q3. Number of years they have studied English:

Q4. English language ability levels:
Q3. If you plan to change the order of the units and
present them in a different sequence, why, and
what sequence do you plan to use?
Q5. Reasons for learning English:
Reason(s) for changing the sequence:

Q6. What makes these students different from other
students?

Alternative sequence:

Q7. You are unique, too! What makes you different
© National Geographic Learningfrom other English language teachers you work
with?

| T21

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 21 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 24 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

In Part One, we talked about the importance of
H BEFORE, DURING, AND AFTER
change in professional development.
Another way of using our textbooks as part of your
professional development is to make it a focus of
TASK 24
your pre-lesson, during-lesson, and post-lesson
Are there any changes you plan to make to your
reflection.
World Link textbook to adapt it to your English
language teaching and learning environment?
We have already looked at many examples of some
of the questions you might ask before and during
If so, what kinds of changes will you make?
the lesson, related to your textbook. But there are
many questions you should ask afterwards. These
include:

• Did that unit or lesson work the way I thought it
would? If not, how was it different? It is important
to remember here that a lesson may go better
than you thought it would, so “different” can be
TASK 25
“different but better” as well as “different and
Are there any changes you will make to your World
worse” than you thought it would be!
Link textbook to adapt it to your English language
students?
• If I had to reteach the same lesson, using the
same unit, what would I do the same, what
If so, what kinds of changes will you make?
would I do differently, and why?
• Were the materials at the right level for my
students? If so, how do I know? If not, what
changes can I make so that the material
matches the students’ levels more closely?
• Did students appear to understand all of the
instructions for all of the exercises?
TASK 26
Are there any changes you will make to your World
Link textbook to adapt it to your teaching style(s)?
I CONCLUSION
If so, what kinds of changes will you make?
We hope we have helped you to start thinking of
your World Link textbook as part of your professional
development. By using your textbook carefully,
thoughtfully, and reflectively, your textbook can help
you learn as well as help you teach. Good luck!
Enjoy!

There are other questions you could ask yourself
as well, including: What local objects and artifacts
can I—and my students—bring in to supplement
and localize the material in the textbook? These
“pedagogical artifacts” are sometimes called
“realia.”

Dr. Andy Curtis is the 50th President of the TESOL International
Association (2015-2016). He is also a professor in the Graduate
© National Geographic LearningSchool of Education at Anaheim University in California.
Answers to Task 14

1. c, 2. k, 3. h, 4. j, 5. m, 6. a, 7. b, 8. d, 9. g, 10. i, 11. f, 12. l,
13. e, 14. n

T22 |

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 22 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 25 ────────

FOURTH EDITION

WORLD
INTRO
LINK
DEVELOPING ENGLISH FLUENCY

NANCY DOUGLAS

JAMES R. MORGAN

© National Geographic Learning

L E A R N I N G

Australia • Brazil • Canada • Mexico • Singapore • United Kingdom • United States

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 23 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 26 ────────

L E A R N I N G

© 2021 Cengage Learning, Inc.
National Geographic Learning,
a Cengage Company
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No part of this work covered by the copyright
herein may be reproduced or distributed in any form or by any means,
except as permitted by U.S. copyright law, without the prior written
World Link Level Intro: Developing English Fluency,
permission of the copyright owner.
Fourth Edition
“National Geographic”, “National Geographic Society” and the Yellow Border
Publisher: Sherrise Roehr
Design are registered trademarks of the National Geographic Society
Marcas Registradas
Executive Editor: Sarah Kenney
®
Managing Editor: Claudi Mimó

Director of Global Marketing: Ian Martin
For permission to use material from this text or product,
Heads of Regional Marketing:
submit all requests online at cengage.com/permissions
Further permissions questions can be emailed to
Charlotte Ellis (Europe, Middle East and Africa)
permissionrequest@cengage.com
Irina Pereyra (Latin America)

Senior Product Marketing Manager:

Caitlin Thomas
Student’s Book
Content Project Manager: Beth Houston
ISBN: 978-0-357-50209-9
Student’s Book + My World Link Online:
Media Researcher: Stephanie Eenigenburg
ISBN: 978-0-357-50210-5
Cover/Text Design: Lisa Trager

Art Director: Brenda Carmichael
National Geographic Learning
Operations Support: Hayley Chwazik-Gee,
200 Pier 4 Boulevard
Avi Mednick, Katie Lee
Boston, MA 02210
Manufacturing Planner: Mary Beth Hennebury
USA

Composition: MPS North America LLC
Locate your local office at international.cengage.com/region

Visit National Geographic Learning online at ELTNGL.com
Visit our corporate website at www.cengage.com

© National Geographic Learning

Printed in Mexico
Print Number: 01 Print Year: 2021

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 24 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 27 ────────

Acknowledgments
Thank you to the educators who provided invaluable feedback throughout the development of the World Link series:

Asia
Michael Jake Arcilla, Aii Language Center, Phnom Penh; Fintan Brennan, Meisei University, Tokyo; Tyler Burden, Meisei
University, Tokyo; Catherine Cheetham, Tokai University, Tokyo; Will Fan, Xiamen Wanda, Xiamen; Mark Firth, Oberlin University,
Machida; Hiroshi Fukuda, Jumonji University, Niiza; Thomas Goetz, Hokusei Gakuen University, Sapporo; Helen Hanae, Reitaku
University, Kashiwa; Louis Liu, Meten English, Shenzen; Shaun McLewin, Hanseo University, Seosan; Raymond Monk, Jr., Meten
English, Dalian; Donald Patterson, Seirei Christopher University, Hamamatsu City; Mongkol Sodachan, Rangsit University,
Pathum Thani; Robert Wright, Meten English, Chengdu; Elvira Wu, Meten English, Quanzhou; I-Cheng Wu, Southern Taiwan
University of Science and Technology, Tainan City; Xie Yu, SFLEP, Shanghai; Vince Zhang, Thinktown, Hangzhou; Vivi Zhang,
Xiamen Wanda, Xiamen

Latin America
Anthony Acevedo, ICPNA, Lima; Jorge Aguilar, Centro de Estudios de Idiomas UAS, Culiacan; Lidia Stella Aja, Centro Cultural
Colombo Americano, Cali; Ana Laura Alferez, Instituto Domingo Savio, Mexico City; Lúcia Rodrigues Alves, Seven, Sao Paulo;
Alessandra Atarcsay, WOWL Education, Rio de Janeiro; Isabella Campos Alvim, IBEU Copacabana, Rio de Janeiro; Ana
Berg, Ana Berg EFL School, Rio de Janeiro; Raul Billini, Santo Domingo; Isabela Villas Boas, Casa Thomas Jefferson, Brasilia;
Lourdes Camarillo, Escuela Bancaria Comercial, Mexico City; Cinthia Castañeda, Centro de Idiomas, Coatzacoalcos; Enrique
Chapuz, Universidad Veracruzana, Coatzacoalcos; Giseh Cuesta, MESCyT, Mexico City; Carlos Fernández, ICPNA, Lima; Vania
Furtado, IBEU Copacabana, Rio de Janeiro; Mariana Garcia, BUAP, Puebla; Jeanette Bravo Garonce, IPA Idiomas, Brasilia;
Luiz Henrique Bravo Garonce, IPA Idiomas, Brasilia; Fily Hernandez, Universidad Veracruzana, Coatzacoalcos; Manuel Hidalgo
Iglesias, Escuela Bancaria Comercial, Mexico City; Dafna Ilian, ESIME, Azcapotzalco; Rubén Jacome, Universidad Veracruzana,
Coatzacoalcos; Beatriz Jorge, Alumni, Sao Paulo; Gledis Libert, ICDA, Santo Domingo; Rocio Liceaga, International House,
Mexico City; Elizabeth Palacios, ICPNA, Lima; Emeli Borges Pereira Luz, UNICAMPI, Sao Paulo; Patricia McKay, CELLEP,
Sao Paulo; Victor Hugo Medina, Cultura Inglesa Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte; Maria Helena Meyes, ACBEU, Salvador; Isaias
Pacheco, Universidad Veracruzana, Coatzacoalcos; Miguel Rodriguez, BUAP, Puebla; Nelly Romero, ICPNA, Lima; Yesenia
Ruvalcaba, Universidad de Guadalajara, Guadalajara; Eva Sanchez, BUAP, Puebla; Marina Sánchez, Instituto Domingo Savio,
Mexico City; Thais Scharfenberg, Centro Europeu, Curitiba; Pilar Sotelo, ICPNA, Lima; Rubén Uceta, Centro Cultural Domínico
Americano, Santiago De Los Caballeros; Italia Vergara, American English Overseas Center, Panama City; Maria Victoria Guinle
Vivacqua, UNICAMP, Sao Paulo

United States and Canada
Bobbi Plante, Manitoba Institute of Trades and Technology, Winnipeg; Richard McDorman, Language On Schools, Miami, FL;
Luba Nesteroba, Bilingual Education Institute, Houston, TX; Tracey Partin, Valencia College, Orlando, FL

© National Geographic Learning

Acknowledgments | iii

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 25 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 28 ────────

SCOPE AND SEQUENCE
WARM-UP
UNIT LESSON VOCABULARY LISTENING GRAMMAR
VIDEO

Carlos’s Day    Names and    Class
Subject
INTRODUCTIONS P. 2    LESSON A
Hi, My Name    p. 2 personal
introductions    pronouns and
Is . . . p. 4    information p. 4
p. 5    possessive
(Can you repeat that,
adjectives with
LESSON B    please? , My name
Describing TV    be p. 7
My Favorites p. 9    is . . .)
shows p. 12
Yes / No
1
Interests and
questions with
favorites p. 9
be p. 13
(favorite, music,
sports )

LESSON A    Speeding
Countries and    A game show
Questions and
COUNTRIES P. 16
Around the    Around the
nationalities p. 18 about identifying
answers with
World p. 18    World in Under
(China, Chinese;    countries p. 19
who and where
Five Minutes    Mexico, Mexican )
p. 21
LESSON B    p. 16
A report about a
It’s a Big City    Describing cities
city p. 26    Adjectives with
p. 23    p. 23 (beautiful,
be p. 27
2
interesting, large,
old )

LESSON A    What Do You    Possessions p. 32
A conversation    Spelling rules for
POSSESSIONS P. 30
Gifts p. 32    Always Carry    (headphones, laptop,
about gift-giving    forming plural
With You? p. 30 watch)    p. 33
nouns p. 35
LESSON B
Sorting personal    This / that /
Important Items    Describing items
items p. 40    these / those
p. 37    in a room p. 37
(clean, expensive,
p. 41
3
important )

REAL WORLD LINK 1 Big City or Small Town? p. 44
ACTIVITIES P. 46
LESSON A    A Day in the    Things we do
People talk about The present
What Are You    Life of a College p. 48 (exercising,
activities p. 49    continuous:
Doing? p. 48    Student p. 47    listening to music,
affirmative
studying )    A podcast about
and negative
LESSON B
studying abroad    statements p. 51
At School p. 53    School subjects
p. 56
and majors p. 53
The present
4
(business, history,
continuous:
science )
extended time
p. 57

LESSON A    Pizza Around    Foods and drinks
Ordering from a    The simple
FOOD P. 60
What’s on the    the World p. 60 p. 62 (coffee, fried
food truck p. 63    present:
Menu? p. 62    chicken, rice )
affirmative
Discussing the    and negative
LESSON B    Tips for healthy
importance of    statements p. 65
Eating Right    eating p. 67
breakfast p. 70
p. 67    (energy, good for
The simple
5
you, healthy )
present: Yes / No
questions and
short answers
© National Geographic Learning
p. 71

LESSON A    Megafamily    Family members
A story about a    Possessive
RELATIONSHIPS P. 74
Family p. 76    p. 74 p. 76 (father,
family’s lifestyle    nouns p. 79
mother ; brother,    p. 77
LESSON B    sister )
Have got p. 85
Love and
An interview
Marriage p. 81    Relationships
about modern
p. 81 (married,
marriage p. 84
6
single; husband,
wife )

REAL WORLD LINK 2 My Favorite Place to Eat p. 88

iv

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 26 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 29 ────────

UNITS 1–6

ACTIVE    LISTENING AND    GLOBAL
PRONUNCIATION SPEAKING READING WRITING
ENGLISH    READING SKILLS    VOICES

Contractions with    Introducing    Your Photo,    Write    Provide personal    Listen for numbers
Nice to Meet
be p. 6 yourself p. 6 Your Story    about your    information    p. 5
You p. 15
p. 10    favorites    and interview
p. 14    classmates p. 8    Infer information
p. 11
Ask about favorites
p. 14    Listen for details
p. 12

Stressed syllables    Asking where    A Great    Write about    Play a board game    Listen for
Andrés Ruzo:
p. 18 someone is    Place to Visit a vacation    about places and    confirmation p. 19
Map My Family
from p. 20    p. 24    p. 28    nationalities p. 22
p. 29
Read for details
Interview    p. 25
classmates about
vacation spots p. 28 Listen for details
p. 26

Plural endings p. 35 Giving and    Who Is Marie Write about    Role play about
Listen for details    What’s Your
replying to    Kondo? p. 38 objects in a    giving and receiving
p. 33    Favorite
thanks p. 34    room p. 42    gifts p. 36
Gadget? p. 43
Scan for
Ask for and give
information p. 38
advice about
cleaning a room    Listen for the main
p. 42    idea p. 40

Combining words    Greeting people Popular    Fill out a    Play charades p. 52 Listen for specific
Voices from
with how p. 50 and asking how Online    questionnaire    information p. 49
Chicago p. 59
they are p. 50    Classes p. 54 p. 58    Interview
classmates p. 58    Infer information
p. 55

Listen for specific
information p. 56

And p. 63 Talking about    Two    Write about a Plan a dinner party    Listen for details    What to Eat in
likes and    Powerful    favorite food p. 66    p. 63    Peru p. 73
dislikes p. 64    Foods p. 68    p. 72
Talk about a favorite Take notes p. 69
food p. 72
Predict p. 70

© National Geographic Learning
All in the Family
Possessive’s p. 79 Talking about    Time to Get    Write about    Take a quiz about    Listen for details
p. 87
age p. 78 Married?    relationship    numbers and family p. 77
p. 82    norms and    p. 80
preferences    Skim for the gist
p. 86    Take a relationship    p. 83
survey p. 86
Listen for details
p. 84

Scope and Sequence | v

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 27 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 30 ────────

SCOPE AND SEQUENCE
WARM-UP
UNIT LESSON VOCABULARY LISTENING GRAMMAR
VIDEO

Late for Work    Times and daily
A talk about an    Prepositions of
TIME P. 90    LESSON A
My Routine p. 92 p. 90 routines p. 92
astronaut’s daily    time p. 95
(go to school, It’s
life p. 93
LESSON B    one o’clock, wake
The simple
Have a Good    up )
Describing a    present: Wh-
Weekend p. 97
Daybreaker party questions p. 101
Weekend
p. 100
7
activities p. 97
(go for a bike ride,
go running, go to the
movies )

LESSON A    Ice Music    Months, Seasons,
A person talking    Wh- questions
SPECIAL OCCASIONS P. 104
Taking Time Off    p. 105 and Holidays
about travel plans with prepositions
p. 106    p. 106 (January,
p. 107    p. 109
week, winter, year )
LESSON B
A talk about a    Questions with
Big Events p. 111    Festivals and
festival p. 114    when and how
special events
long p. 115
8
p. 111 (celebrate,
event, take place )

LESSON A    Moving Out    Chores and
Pros and cons    Frequency
TOGETHER P. 118
Roommates    p. 118 housework
of living with a    adverbs p. 123
p. 120    p. 120 (clean, do the
roommate p. 121
Review of
dishes, take out the
LESSON B    garbage )
A story about    question forms
Friends p. 125
friendship p. 128    p. 129
Friendship p. 125
9
(get along, good
friends, hang out )

REAL WORLD LINK 3 An Outdoor Festival p. 132
LESSON A    Small Spaces,    Rooms, areas,
A talk about    There is / There
HOME P. 134
At Home p. 136    Small Ideas    and items in a
an apartment    are p. 139
p. 134    house p. 136 (bed, building p. 137
LESSON B    chair, kitchen, living
Very and too
Home Design    room )
Discussing an    p. 145
p. 141
opinion on small
10
Colors and design
living spaces
p. 141 (red, yellow ;
p. 144
happy, relaxed )

LESSON A    Street Style in    Clothing p. 150
Talk about    Have to and
CLOTHING P. 148
Shopping p. 150 New York City    (jacket, pants,
an explorer’s    want to p. 153
p. 149    T-shirt )    clothing p. 151
LESSON B
Count and
Style p. 155    Describing
A conversation    noncount nouns
clothes p. 155    about dressing
p. 159
(baggy, casual,    for a job interview
11
dressy, stylish )    p. 158

© National Geographic Learning
A talk about    Questions with
LESSON A    Career Day    Jobs p. 164 (doctor,
JOBS P. 162
robots doing jobs like p. 167
What Do You Do? p. 162 lawyer, server )
p. 165
p. 164
Work goals p. 169    Talking about
Discussing side    ability with can /
LESSON B    (do an internship,
hustles p. 172    can’t p. 173
Getting a Job    get experience,
p. 169    make money )
12

REAL WORLD LINK 4 The Next Big Thing p. 176

vi

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 28 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 31 ────────

UNITS 7–12

ACTIVE    LISTENING AND    GLOBAL
PRONUNCIATION SPEAKING READING WRITING
ENGLISH    READING SKILLS    VOICES

Numbers p. 94 Making and    What Type    Write    Make plans p. 96    Listen for numbers
My Time p. 103
responding to    of Weekend    questions    p. 93
suggestions    Person Are    about the    Play a memory
p. 94    You? p. 98    activities a    game p. 102    Use key words to
person does    predict p. 98
p. 102    Listen for main
points p. 100

Ordinal numbers    Saying you    Burning    Write about    Plan a staycation    Listen for dates
What’s Your
p. 107 know or    Man: Art in    a festival    p. 110    p. 107
Favorite
don’t know    the Desert    p. 116
Holiday? p. 117
something    p. 112    Ask and answer    Explain p. 113
p. 108    questions about a
festival p. 116    Listen for numbers
p. 114

Frequency adverbs Apologizing    The    Write about    Complete a
Activate knowledge Best Friends and
p. 121    “Frenemies”
p. 123    p. 122    Wonderful    friendship    roommate
Gift of    p. 130    questionnaire p. 124
p. 131
Friendship    Use headings to
p. 126    Ask and answer    predict p. 127
questions about
friendship p. 130    Listen and
sequence p. 128

Showing surprise    Showing    The Power of Write about    Draw and describe    Build background
A Green Home
p. 138 surprise p. 138 Color p. 142 your home    a room p. 140    knowledge p. 137
p. 147
p. 146
Agree about how    Scan for
to solve a problem    information p. 143
p. 146
Make and check
predictions p. 144

Want to and have to Saying what    Business    Write about    Ask and answer    Listen for details    The Tweed Run
p. 153 you want;    Casual . . .    a person’s    questions about    p. 151    p. 161
Asking for and What’s    style p. 160    clothing p. 154
giving prices    That? p. 156    Predict p. 157
p. 152    Talk about aperson’s style p. 160 Listen for detail and
infer p. 158

© National Geographic LearningOne Man, Two
Question word + do Talking about    Working    Write about    Give a business    Listen for the main
Jobs p. 175
+ you p. 166 jobs p. 166 in Two    work goals    introduction p. 168    idea p. 165
Languages    p. 174
Skim and predict
p. 170    Take aquestionnaire about p. 171
skills p. 174
Predict p. 172

Scope and Sequence | vii

WLTB_INT_FM_ptg01.indd 29 25/05/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 32 ────────

UNIT 1
1
ABOUT THE PHOTO
The people in the photo are at a
silent disco—a live event at which
INTRODUCTIONS
people listen to music on wireless
headphones instead of speakers.
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. COMPLETE 1 AND 2.
Attendees can often change
channels and listen to different
1. The people are .
types of music as they dance.
a. in class
They can also control the volume
b. at a party

on their headphones or remove
c. at home

2. Match a conversation with the man and woman.
them to chat with others. Early
a. –Hi. I’m Gabe.
“silent events” started in Europe
–My name is Elena.
as a way to hold large outdoor
b. –Hello. I’m Ms. Medina, the teacher.
concerts without bothering local
–Good morning. My name is Gabe.
people and wildlife. Today, people
host silent dance parties in many
different locations, including clubs,
WARM-UP VIDEO
schools, parks, and beaches.
A Watch the video. Then circle T for true or F for false.
1. Carlos is a student. T F
INTRODUCE THE THEME
2. Carlos says hi to Ana. T F
In Unit 1, students learn to greet
3. Ana is a teacher. T F
others and talk about their interests.
Greetings and introductions are an
B Watch the video again. Say the sentences aloud as
important part of communication
you watch.
and vary from culture to culture.
C Watch one more time. Match the correct answers to
Talking about our interests allows
complete the conversation on screen.
us to express ourselves and
d
1. a. She’s a student.
connect with others.
f
2. b. See you!
a
3. c. Hi!
In Lesson A, students learn to
c
4. d. Bye!
introduce themselves, spell
e
5. e. Hello!
their names, and give contact
b
6. f. He’s a student.
information like phone numbers
and email addresses. In Lesson B,
D Now say hi and bye to a partner.
students talk about their favorite
music, sports, movies, and TV
E What are other ways to say hi and bye?
shows.

WARM-UP 10 min
Draw students’ attention to the
man and woman talking in the
photo. Write man and woman on
the board. Then point to the man
short conversations in item 2.
MORE WORDS: Greetings
and say man and have the class
Act them out for the class. As
repeat. Do the same with the
People often say, Good morning
you do the first one, say Hi and
woman. Then write people on the
(or just Morning) to greet others
wave to the class so students
board and point to all the other
early in the day.
understand the meaning. Then
people in the photo. Say the word
© National Geographic Learning
act out the second conversation
people aloud and have the class
in a slightly more formal manner.
WARM-UP VIDEO
repeat.
Write Hello = Hi on the board.
About the video
(Hello is more formal.) Then ask
Look at the photo. Complete
The video follows the main
students which conversation (a or
1 and 2. 5 min
character, Carlos, through his day
b) goes with the man and woman.
Read the caption aloud and then
and is divided into two parts. In
do item 1 with the class. Help
the first half, Carlos uses different
MORE WORDS
with any unfamiliar vocabulary.
expressions to say hello and
Ask students, Is a silent disco
class home silent teacher
goodbye to people. The second half
fun? Take a show of hands from
dance party student
repeats what students have seen,
the class. Next, look at the two
but with the target language omitted.

2 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 1

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 2 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 33 ────────

A Watch the video. Then circle T
for true or F for false. 10 min
Have students read the three
sentences. Then play the first
half of the video (up to the point
that Carlos returns home). Have
students circle T or F. Check
People dance at
a silent disco.
answers as a class.

B Watch the video again. Say the
sentences aloud as you watch.
10 min

Play the first half of the video
again. As students watch, they
should say the sentences on
screen aloud. Pause the video
if necessary. Repeat this step
as needed.

C Watch one more time. Match
the correct answers to
complete the conversation on
screen. 10 min
This time, play only the
second half of the video.
Tell students the target
language is omitted, and that
they should choose the correct
answer (a–f) to complete
each conversation on screen.
Do the first one with the class
to model this exercise. At the
end, play the entire video to
check answers.

D Now say hi and bye to a
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
partner. 5 min
/ Introduce yourself and spell your name    / Talk about your favorites
Have students turn to a partner
/ Say phone numbers and email addresses / Ask about a person’s interests
and say hi and bye.

E What are other ways to say hi
greetings with the person opposite
and bye? 5–10 min
them. Signal again to have
Have students practice other
students say goodbye, using an
ways of saying hi and bye they
expression they learned. Students
learned in the video.
in the inner circle should then
© National Geographic Learning
move one place to the right and
exchange greetings with the new
TEACHING OPTION
person opposite them. Continue
Instead of having students talk to
doing this until students have
a partner in D and E, have them
practiced with several people.
form two circles, one inside the
other. Students in the inner circle
should stand facing outwards,
looking at the person in front of
them in the outer circle. On your
signal, students should exchange

Teacher’s Book UNIT 1 | 3

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 3 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 34 ────────

1A HI, MY NAME IS . . .

Mei-Li    Lucas
Mei-Li

Alberto    Noor
Alberto    Noor

VOCABULARY

A Say the letters with your teacher.
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z

B Say the letters with a partner. Then change roles and repeat.
Student A: Say A–M.

Student B: Say N–Z.

C Look at the photos above. Then listen. Write the last names. 2
First name Last name
Yang
Mei-Li
Cruz
Alberto
Carvalho
Lucas
© National Geographic LearningHashim
Noor

D Check answers in C with a partner.
USEFUL EXPRESSION
Can you repeat that, please?

E Work with a partner.
1. Student A: Spell your first and last name.    My first name is
T-O-M-A-S.
2. Student B: Write your partner’s name.    Can you repeat
that, please?
3. Change roles and repeat.
Sure. T-O-M . . .

4 | UNIT 1

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 4 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 35 ────────

C Look at the photos above. Then listen. Write the
1A HI, MY NAME IS . . .
last names. 2 10–15 min
Look first at the title of the lesson. Remind
VOCABULARY
students that they learned the word Hi in the
Warm-Up video. Then write on the board, Hi, my
WARM-UP 10 min
first name is . . . My last name is . . . Complete
Have students look at the alphabet in A. Call out ten
both sentences with your name to illustrate
different letters and have students circle the ones
the meaning of first and last name. Next, have
they hear. (Model this once so that students know
students look at the four people in the photo. Point
what to do.) Can students recognize any of the
to Mei-Li. Then play the first part of the audio and
letters when they’re said aloud? Check answers with
tell students to listen and write her last name in
the class.
the chart as she spells it. After, ask a student to
say Mei-Li’s last name and spell it for the class.
Then play the audio for the other three names.
TEACHING TIP: Modeling

It helps to model an exercise so that students know
CULTURE TIP: First and last names
what to do. Doing the first item in an exercise, for
In many English-speaking countries, people often
example, will illustrate for students what’s expected
use the terms first name (given name) and last name
of them and can save important class time.
(family name or surname). Not every culture follows
this pattern, though. In Asian countries (e.g., China,
Korea), the family name comes first (Pak Yong-Jun:
A Say the letters with your teacher. 5 min
Pak = family name, Yong-Jun = first name).
Say each letter aloud with the class. Do this a
second time for practice.
D Check answers in C with a partner. 5–10 min
B Say the letters with a partner. Then change roles
Have students spell each person’s last name with
and repeat. 10 min
a partner. Check answers as a class by asking a
student volunteer to stand at the board. Call on
Have students work with a partner. Student A
a few students to spell each person’s last name,
should say letters A to M. Student B should say
which the volunteer should write on the board.
letters N to Z. When they listen, students should
make sure their partner is pronouncing the letters
correctly. When they’re done, have students
E Work with a partner. 10 min
change roles.
Have students write their names to complete the
sentence: My name is . . ., as in the example on
EXTRA! Alphabet bingo 10 min
the page. If Roman letters are not used in your
students’ native language, you may need to help
On the board, draw a four-bythem sound out and spell their names in English.
four chart like the example
shown. Have students copy it
Then have students work with a partner again.
in their notebooks and write a
Each person should say, My name is . . . to their
different letter of the alphabet
partner and spell their name aloud. They should
in each box. (Every chart in
not say their name. Their partner should listen and
class will be different.) Then model how to play
write the person’s name in their notebook. Model
bingo and play with the class.
this once for the class. If students don’t understand
something that is said, they can ask, Can you
• Call out letters at random.
repeat that, please? (See the Useful Expression.)
• When a student hears a letter in their chart called,
they should circle the letter. Keep a list on the
CULTURE TIP: Using names and titles
board of the letters called.
In the US and some other English-speaking countries,
© National Geographic Learning
• The first student to circle all the letters in one row
it is common for people to call each other by their first
or column in their chart and call out Bingo! wins.
name, even when the person is older or an authority
figure (e.g., a manager at work or a teacher).
• Have the winner read aloud the letters in their
chart. Check them against your list to confirm that
In a formal setting, it’s best to use a person’s title
they were all called.
and surname (e.g., Professor Yang, Mr. Kim,
Ms. Medina) unless you are told otherwise. Formal
• For more practice, have the winner come to the
titles are Mr. (m st r) for men and Ms. (m z) for
front of the class and call out the letters for the
women (married or single). Mrs. ('m s z)—for
next round.
married women—and Miss (m s)—for single, young
women—are less commonly used in the US these
days.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson A | 4a

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 5 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 36 ────────

Listen for numbers. Beginners need practice
LISTENING
listening for phone numbers and email
addresses. They also need to be made aware
WARM-UP 5 min
of how information is divided and how rhythm
Write the numbers 1 to 10 on the board. Point to
and pausing are used, especially with phone
different numbers and see if students know how to
numbers.
say any of them in English.

CULTURE TIP: Phone numbers
A Say the words in the Word Bank with your
How people state phone numbers varies from
teacher. 5–10 min
country to country. In the United States, phone
numbers have ten digits and are written like this:
Direct students’ attention to the Word Bank. Say
(472) 677-9581. The three-digit area code is followed
the numbers aloud and have students repeat.
by a seven-digit phone number. Phone numbers
Then write a number (1 to 10) on the board and
are usually said digit by digit and are expressed as
have students call it out without reading from
follows (notice the pause breaks): four seven two /
their books. Do this with all of the numbers a few
six seven seven / nine five eight one. Ask students
times to give students practice recognizing and
what the pattern is in their city or country.
saying the numbers in English.

Next, write an example of a common email
address used in your country. Say, This is an
D Say the names, email addresses, and phone
email address. Then tell students to look at
numbers in the chart. 10 min
the language used to say an email address in
Put students in pairs and have them take turns
the Word Bank. Say the words aloud and have
checking their answers in C by reading them
students repeat. Ask the class if they know any
aloud. Then check answers as a class. Call on
other email extensions (e.g., .net, .org). Then
different volunteers to give each name and piece
have a student volunteer say the email address
of information.
you wrote on the board for the class.

EXTRA! Important contacts 10 min
B Matt is a teacher. He is meeting the students.
Do a search for important phone numbers students
Listen. Write the last name and nicknames.
might need. Then dictate these to the class (or
3 10 min
have a volunteer do it), and have students write the
Look at the chart and tell students they will hear
numbers. Do the same with email addresses.
a teacher named Matt. He introduces himself
(says hi and his name) to the class. Then Mei-Li
and Alberto do the same. Mei-Li and Alberto
E Write your information in the chart. The email
also tell people their nickname—that is, a short
address and phone number can be real or
or different version of their name. Make sure that
invented. Then tell a partner: My . . . is . . .
students understand this word by giving your
10–15 min
own example. Then play the audio and have
For this exercise, students can use their real
students write Matt’s last name, and Mei-Li’s and
email address and phone number, but it may be
Alberto’s nicknames.
best to have them invent the information so they
aren’t giving out personal information.
C Listen for numbers. Listen again. Write the email
When students do the exercise, tell them to
addresses and phone numbers. 4 10–15 min
listen and write their partner’s name, phone
Tell students to look at the information in the
number, and email address in their notebook. If
chart. This time, they will hear the speakers
students don’t understand something, they can
give their email addresses and phone numbers.
ask, Can you repeat that? or Can you spell that?
Before students listen, draw their attention to the
At the end, students should ask their partner to
information note about saying phone numbers
check that the information they’ve written in their
(also see Culture Tip). Point out, too, that in
© National Geographic Learningnotebook is correct.
American English it’s common to say oh (not zero)
when giving a phone number. Then play the audio
and have students write the email extensions
(.com, .edu) and phone numbers they hear.
Repeat as needed.

5a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 6 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 37 ────────

LISTENING
WORD BANK

Numbers Email addresses
A Say the words in the Word Bank with your teacher.
0 zero*    6 six    @ = at
1 one    7 seven .com = dot com
2 two    8 eight .edu = dot e-d-u
B Matt is a teacher. He is meeting the students. Listen.
3 three    9 nine
Write the last name and nicknames. 3
4 four    10 ten
5 five
*For zero, say oh in a phone number.

First name Last name Nickname* @ Email address Phone number
Hudson    Hudson    ccf.edu    472 304    9682
Matt Matt. @ ( ) -

Mei    Mei .com    615    2473
Mei-Li Yang @easypost (472) -

Alberto Cruz AlbertoC@mylink ( ) -
Beto    .mx 472    504    9918

*nickname = a short or different name from your first name

i In English, people say
C Listen for numbers. Listen again. Write the email addresses and
each number in a phone
number (4-7-2) 6-7-7 . . .
phone numbers. 4

D Say the names, email addresses, and phone numbers in the chart.
USEFUL EXPRESSION
E Write your information in the chart. The email address and phone
Can you spell that, please?
number can be real or invented. Then tell a partner: My . . . is . . .

My email address is . . .
Can you spell that, please?

Students say hi
outside of school.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson A | 5

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 7 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 38 ────────

SPEAKING

A Read and listen to the conversation. 5
Maya: Hi, my name is Maya. What’s your name?

Antonio: Hi, Maya. I’m Antonio.

Maya: Nice to meet you, Antonio.

Antonio: It’s nice to meet you, too.

Two people meet
and shake hands.

B PRONUNCIATION: Contractions with be Listen and repeat. 6
SPEAKING STRATEGY 7
1. What is ➔ What’s ➔ What’s your name?
Introducing Yourself
2. I am ➔ I’m ➔ I’m Antonio.
Hi. What’s your name?
My name is . . . / I’m . . .
3. It is ➔ It’s ➔ It’s nice to meet you.
(It’s) nice to meet you.
(It’s) nice to meet you, too.
C Practice the conversation in A.

D Practice the conversation in A again. Use your names.

E Meet six classmates. Use the Speaking Strategy. Write the names.
1.
2.
© National Geographic Learning
3.
4.
5.
6.

6 | UNIT 1

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 8 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 39 ────────

C Practice the conversation in A. 5 min
SPEAKING
Have students work in pairs to practice the
WARM-UP 5 min
conversation. Then have them switch roles and
practice again.
Have students look at the photo and read the
caption. Write these sentences on the board and
help students with any unfamiliar words.
EXTRA! Rebuild the conversation 15 min
While students are practicing, write the
1. The man and woman are friends.
conversation on the board (or project it) with some
2. The man and woman are meeting.
of the words missing. Tell students to close their
books and look at the conversation on the board
Ask, Is sentence one or two correct? (Answer:
(or screen). Have them say the conversation again,
sentence 2)
trying to fill in the missing words from memory.
After they finish, erase some more words from the
CULTURE TIP: Shaking hands
conversation and tell students to try it again. Keep
doing this until you’ve erased almost all of the words.
The two people in the photo are shaking hands.
See how much students are able to remember.
This is a formal greeting used in many Englishspeaking countries when two people meet for
the first time. A polite handshake is firm (but not
D Practice the conversation in A again. Use your
painfully so!), and people usually look directly at
names. 5 min
each other. In an informal setting, people will often
nod their head or wave when meeting someone
Tell students to practice the conversation again,
for the first time, and say hi or hey. Demonstrate
this time using their own names. Encourage them
these actions (shake hands, nod, wave) with the
to try doing it without reading the conversation.
appropriate greeting(s). Ask students if these
greetings are the same or different in their country.
TEACHING TIP: Read, look up, and speak

When students practice a written conversation, tell
A Read and listen to the conversation. 5 10–15 min
them not to read from the page only, but to try to look
at their partner when speaking. Monitor students to
Direct students to the conversation and have
make sure they’re doing this. When students look at
them read it. Then play the audio once. For
their partner while they’re talking, it forces them to
additional practice, play it again and have
break up sentences into phrases rather than reciting
students repeat each line.
word by word the text they are reading.
SPEAKING STRATEGY 7
Have students look at the Speaking Strategy.
E Meet six classmates. Use the Speaking Strategy.
Students will already know how to say Hi. My name
Write the names. 15 min
is . . ., so point out that saying, I’m . . . means the
Tell students to stand up and walk around the
same thing (My name is Maya. / I’m Maya.). When
classroom to introduce themselves to other
you want to know a person’s name, you can ask,
students. Remind them that if they can’t spell a
What’s your name?
name, they can ask, Can you spell that, please?

B PRONUNCIATION: Contractions with be Listen
TEACHING TIP: Delaying feedback
and repeat. 6 10 min
Very often, it’s best not to correct simple errors
Write what is on the board and say it with
during communicative speaking exercises.
the class. Then erase the i in is, add the s
Students may not internalize the correction, and
to what with an apostrophe, and say what’s
overcorrecting can distract them from the purpose
with the class. Get students to notice how the
of the exercise, which is to exchange information.
pronunciation shifts from what is (/Iz/) to what’s
Instead, make a note of things you hear. Then list
(/s/). Then play the audio and have students
sentences on the board at the end of the exercise
practice saying the full and contracted forms for
© National Geographic Learningand go over them with the class.
1, 2, and 3.

LANGUAGE TIP: Contractions

A contraction is the combination of two words
formed by replacing a missing letter with an
apostrophe (e.g., what is ➔ what’s). Contractions
are very common in everyday speech and students
should be encouraged to use them.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson A | 6a

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 9 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 40 ────────

EXTRA! Pop quiz 10–15 min
GRAMMAR
Tell students to close their books. Then project or
WARM-UP 5 min
write these incomplete sentences:
Remind students that they’ve already learned the
I’ a student. name is . . .
contracted form I’m for I am. Tell them that they are
now going to learn some more contracted forms.
She’ the teacher. name is . . .

He’ my classmate. name is . . .
A Look at the chart. 10 min
The man and woman are students.
Write on the board, I am a student. You are . . .; He
names Jon and Susana.
is . . .; She is . . .; They are . . .. Demonstrate the
meaning of each sentence: I am a teacher. (Point
In their notebooks, students should write the
to yourself.) You are a student. (Point to a student.)
complete sentences with the contracted word,
He is a student. (Point to a male student.) She is
the correct possessive adjective, or the verb.
a student. (Point to a female student.) They are
At the end, have students take turns reading
students. (Point to a group of students.)
their sentences aloud with a partner. Then
check answers as a class. Students should give
Review how I am is shortened to I’m. Do the
themselves a point for each correct answer.
same with the other subject pronoun + be forms:
you are ➔ you’re, he is ➔ he’s, and so on and
say them with the class. Tell students to look at
C Look at the pictures. Then play the game with
these in the chart.
your class. How far can you go? 10–15 min
Point out that I’m, You’re, and He’s / She’s
Have students look at the pictures and read.
are followed by a student, and that They’re is
Model the game with a small group of students.
followed by students. Finally, say each entire
Then have students form a circle (in a large
sentence with the class. (Remind students that
group, two circles) and play the game.
it’s best to use contractions when speaking.)
For additional practice, have students play
Next, say the possessive adjectives in the chart
again. This time, when it’s the third person’s
with the class. Demonstrate the meaning of each
turn, the student should use they’re and their to
and say the sentences with the class.
talk about the previous two people. (My name
is Rina. I’m a student. They’re students. Their
Then say only the contraction-possessive
names are . . .) Students can continue to do this
adjective pairs (For example, I’m / my, you’re /
around the circle.
your) with the class. Tell students to pay attention
to the pronunciation. Ask, Which possessive
D Play again. This time use numbers 1–9 and he,
adjectives have the same sound as you’re and
his, she, and her. 10–15 min
they’re? Tell students to write the words in the box.
In this round, each student should choose a
B Read the Unit 1, Lesson A Grammar Reference in
number between 1 and 9. Have students look at
the appendix. Complete the exercises. 20–25 min
the pictures and read. Model the game again,
this time using numbers. The game could be
Have students review the charts in the Grammar
played in a third round with nicknames or last
Reference and do the exercises. Then have them
names.
check answers with a partner by reading the
sentences in each exercise aloud. Are there any
TEACHING TIP: Drilling
sentences they had difficulty with? Tell them to
circle these. Check answers as a class, paying
At beginning levels, drilling (having students repeat)
special attention to the sentences that students
new language structures such as I’m . . . or You’re . . .
struggled with.
can help build fluency. However, repetition can be
boring, so drilling in an enjoyable and meaningful
Alternatively, you may wish to assign B for
way (using a memory game like the one in C and D)
homework. Students can review the charts in
© National Geographic Learningis often more helpful. If students are engaged and
the appendix, do the exercises, and bring any
using the language in a communicative way, they are
questions they have about the grammar point
more likely to internalize new words and structures.
to class. Then, during the next class meeting,
put students into small groups and have them
go over the exercises in the appendix. Review
any sentences that students found confusing.
Present new examples and reinforce points as
needed.

7a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 10 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 41 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Look at the chart.
1. Say the sentences with your teacher.
I’m . . . my,
you’re . . . your
2. Say the words in bold only.
3. Complete the chart on the right.

SUBJECT PRONOUNS AND POSSESSIVE
SAME SOUND
ADJECTIVES WITH BE
DIFFERENT MEANING
I’m    My    Antonio.
you’re    your
they’re    their
You’re Your Maya.
a student.    name is
He’s His Lucas.
She’s Her Noor.
They’re students. Their names are Mei and Beto.

B Read the Unit 1, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises.

C Look at the pictures. Then play the game with your class. How far can you go?

D Play again. This time, use numbers 1–9 and he, his, she, and her.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson A | 7

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 11 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 42 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Look at the answers. Write the questions.
your name
What’s
1. ?
My name is Alma Valdez.
What’s your email address
2. ?
My email address is avaldez@eazypost.com.
What’s your phone number
3. ?
It’s (399) 555-7061.

B Imagine you are a new student. Think of a new name, phone number, and
email address. Complete the information.

Last name    First name

(613)
Phone number    Email address

C Meet four students. Write their information below. Use your “new” information from B.

Student 1 Student 2

Last name: Last name:

First name: First name:

Phone number: Phone number:

Email address: Email address:

Student 3 Student 4

Last name: Last name:

First name: First name:

Phone number: Phone number:

Email address: Email address:

© National Geographic Learning
1A GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Introduce myself and spell my name
2. Mostly, yes.
Say phone numbers and email addresses
3. Not yet.

8 | UNIT 1

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 12 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 43 ────────

them. Time students as they do this. When time is
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
up, signal for the students in line 1 to shift down a
space. (The person at the end of line 1 should then
WARM-UP 10 min
move to the front of the line.) Now students should
Before class, think of two names, each with a
ask for their new partner’s information. Continue in
phone number and email address. (For example:
this way until students speak to four different people.
My name is Lily: L-I-L-Y. My last name is Tan:
T-A-N. My phone number is 555–5326. My email
Diagnostics
address is lilyT@easypost.com.) In class, dictate
these sentences to the class. Students should
Check students’ competencies as follows:
listen and write each person’s name (as you spell
• Can they use the Speaking Strategy to meet
it), phone number, and email address in their
others and introduce themselves?
notebooks. Remind students that if they don’t
• Can they spell names?
understand something, they can ask you to spell
or repeat the information using expressions they
• Can they give phone numbers and email
learned in this lesson.
addresses?
• Can they use subject pronouns + be correctly?
• Can they use contracted forms?
A Look at the answers. Write the questions. 10 min
• Can they use possessive adjectives correctly?
Look at the answer to item 1. The first word of the
question is given. Ask students how to complete
the question and write it on the board. Then
1A
GOALS
tell students to continue the exercise, writing
the question that goes with each reply. Check
Review students’ self-assessment in the
answers as a class.
goals box. Point out to students where in the
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
they can review those exercises to improve
B Imagine you are a new student. Think of a
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
new name, phone number, and email address.
Introduce yourself and spell your name:
Complete the information. 5 min
Vocabulary, page 4, A–E; Speaking, page 6,
Tell students to invent a new identity for
A–E; Grammar, page 7, A–D; Active English,
themselves and complete the form with their
page 8, A–C.
new information. Circulate, helping students
Say phone numbers and email addresses:
with spelling as needed.
Listening, page 5, A–E; Active English,
page 8, A–C.
C Meet four students. Write their information below.
Use your “new” information from B. 20–25 min
Tell students to walk around the classroom to
NOTES
get information from four other students. Remind
them to start by introducing themselves. If
they can’t spell a name, they can ask, How do
you spell that? After they’ve written a person’s
information, they should ask the person to
check that the name, phone number, and email
address are correct.

Tell students to sit down when they are finished.
When all students are seated again, call on
several student volunteers to talk about one
person they spoke to. The student should point
to another person in class and say the person’s
© National Geographic Learning
name, phone number, and email address.

LARGE CLASS OPTION
Instead of having students walk around and interview
each other, form two lines (line 1 and line 2), each
with four students. (In larger classes, you can have
multiple pairs of lines.) The students in the two lines
should face each other. When you say go, students
should take turns asking for the name, phone
number, and email address of the person opposite

Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson A | 8a

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 13 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 44 ────────

B Su-Min is a student. Read about her favorite
1B MY FAVORITES
things. Complete 1–6 with an answer (a–f).
Then check answers with a partner. 10–15 min
VOCABULARY
Look first at the words in blue in sentences 1–6
with the class. Say the new words with them. Act
WARM-UP 5 min
out, translate, or give an example of each word
Write the word favorite on the board and say it
to help students understand its meaning.
with the class. Tell students to look up the word in
their dictionaries or translate it into students’ native
Next, read the directions with the class. Explain
language yourself. Then write on the board: His
that sentences 1–6 are about Su-Min’s favorite
favorite sport is .
things. To find out what they are, students should
complete 1–6 with an answer (a–f) in the box.
Direct students to the Word Bank and have them
Review the six options to make sure that students
look at the word sports. Say it with the class and
are familiar with them. If students don’t know
point out that the singular form is sport. Then point
the superhero character Spider-Man or BTS, the
to the word swimming and use it in the sentence on
K-pop (Korean pop) group, for example, find
the board (as you point to the photo): His favorite
photos online and show them to the class. Then
sport is swimming. Have the class repeat the
go over item 1 (already done on the page) with
sentence with you.
students. Point out that Top Chef is a TV show
about cooking. Ask students if there is a similar
A Look at the Word Bank. 10 min
show in their country. Then have them complete
2–6 with a partner. Check answers as a class.
Have students look at the rest of the words in
the Word Bank and say each word aloud with
the class. Brainstorm other types of music and
C Tell a partner about your favorites. 15 min
sports with the class. Write all ideas on the
Model the exercise by telling students about
board.
one or two of your favorites. Also, draw students’
attention to the info note.
EXTRA! 5–10 min
Then tell students to complete the sentences
To introduce additional vocabulary, play clips of
with their ideas. Circulate, helping with
different types of music for students and show
vocabulary as needed. Then have students tell a
photos of different sports. After you’ve introduced
partner about their favorites. Their partner should
the vocabulary play additional clips of music and
listen and take notes. If the person listening
show photos of other sports without saying what
doesn’t know a singer, band, TV show, or movie,
they are. Have students call out the type of music or
encourage students to use their phones to share
the name of the sport.
photos or video.

MORE WORDS
MORE WORDS: Music and sports
Students may also want to use words like
jazz, K-pop, metal, R&B, reggaeton, salsa
album, group, or song to talk about their
cricket, golf, hockey, rugby, tennis, volleyball
favorite music: It’s my favorite song. It’s their
new album. They’re a K-pop group.
LANGUAGE TIP: Same word, different
pronunciation
D Tell a new person about your partner’s answers
Some of the vocabulary introduced in this lesson
in C. 5 min
(hip-hop / rap, pop, golf, etc.) may be the same in
Students should now pair up with a different
your students’ native language, though pronounced
classmate. Using their notes from C, they should
(and sometimes spelled) differently. Call students’
tell their new partner what they learned about
attention to this and have them circle these words.
their classmate.
© National Geographic Learning
CULTURE TIP: Soccer versus football
EXTRA! Pop culture survey 5–10 min
The sport that most of the world refers to as football
Survey the class to find out what the two or three
is called soccer in the United States. In the US,
most popular sports, types of music, movies, and
football is a sport (somewhat similar to rugby) in
TV shows in the class are.
which two teams compete to move a ball across a
field in order to score a touchdown.

9a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 14 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 45 ────────

1B MY FAVORITES

VOCABULARY
WORD BANK
Music

A Look at the Word Bank.
classical

dance
1. Say the words with your teacher.
hip-hop / rap
2. Think of two other types of music and sports. Tell the class.
pop

Sports
B Su-Min is a student. Read about her favorite things. Complete 1–6 with
baseball
an answer (a–f). Then check answers with a partner.
basketball
a. swimming d. FC Barcelona
soccer
b. the new Spider-Man film e. Top Chef
swimming
c. dance f. BTS (the K-Pop group)

Right now, her favorite . . .
a
e
1. TV show is . 4. sport is .
c    d
2. kind of music is music. 5. sports team or player is .
f    b
3. singer or band is . 6. movie is .

C Tell a partner about your favorites.
Right now, my favorite . . .

1. TV show is .    4. sport is .
2. kind of music is .    5. sports team or player is .
3. singer or band is .    6. movie is .

Right now, my favorite TV show
is . . .
i You can also say be into:
I’m into that
My favorite TV show is . . . =
show, too.
I’m into that show.

D Tell a new person about your partner’s answers in C.
My partner is Ruben. His favorite kind of
music is . . .    Swimming at sunset

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 9

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 15 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 46 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Look at the two photos with the
class; tell students to cover the
captions. Then write on the board,
He’s into . . . and She’s into . . .
YOUR PHOTO,
and ask students to complete
the sentences with their ideas,
using their dictionaries to help
YOUR STORY
them. Take answers from the
class, supplying vocabulary as
necessary. Write all ideas on the
The photos on this page are personal portraits. A personal portrait is a kind of photo.
It shows something important about you. Maybe Manchester United is your favorite
board. Get students to notice
soccer team. Maybe you are a student at a famous university. Maybe you are a singer
that they can say a lot about
in a band. A personal portrait is a photo of you. It also tells a story about you. 8
the people in the photos, even
without reading any words.

TEACHING TIP: Using visuals

Encourage students to always
look at photos and other visuals in
a text before they read. Important
information is often conveyed
via photos and other images.
Previewing these helps students
prepare to read and comprehend
information in a passage better.
➊ Mikhail Vasilev is into skateboarding .
It’s his favorite sport    .

A PRONUNCIATION: f and
ph famous photo The
underlined letters in the words
above make the same sound.
5 min

Go over the pronunciation and
meaning of the words famous
and photo. Students will see
these words in the reading.

B Read. Complete the sentence
with the correct answer(s).
5–10 min
10 | UNIT 1

Tell students to read the
sentence and to look at the
four possible answers. Then
C Look at the photos. Complete
the ideas that are on the
tell them to read the title of
board, and then to complete
the sentences about the people
the passage only. (Make
the captions with words from
with words from the box. Two
sure students understand the
the box. Check answers as a
words are extra. 10 min
meaning of the word story in
© National Geographic Learningclass. Ask, Are the Warm-Up
In the Warm-Up, students
the title.) Tell them to circle
ideas on the board similar
looked at the two photos
their answer(s) to guess what
to the captions that you
before they read and made
a personal portrait is. Finally,
completed in this exercise?
some predictions about the
tell them to read the paragraph
people. Tell students to review
to check their ideas. Go over
answers with the class.

10 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 16 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 47 ────────

D Infer information. What are
Mikhail and Jessica into? Tell a
A PRONUNCIATION: f and ph famous photo
partner. 5 min
➋ Jessica Chege is a university student.
The underlined letters in the words above
She’s interested in computers and
Have students work in pairs
make the same sound.
probably science .
to answer the question. One
1. Say the words with your teacher.
student can talk about Mikhail
2. Look up the words in your dictionary.
and the other about Jessica.
B Read. Complete the sentence with the correct
Encourage students to explain
answer(s).
without reading the photo
A personal portrait is a .
captions.
a. kind of photo c. picture of a famous
person
Infer information. Visual
b. soccer team d. story about you
literacy is the ability to
read and interpret photos,
C Look at the photos. Complete the sentences
infographics, charts, and
about the people with words from the box. Two
other images. Having students
words are extra.
look at photos and construct
computers science sport
meaning builds visual literacy
hip-hop skateboarding swimming
and helps them develop
D Infer information. What are Mikhail and
important critical thinking skills.
Jessica into? Tell a partner.

He’s into . . .
E Take your own personal
portrait. 10 min
E Take your own personal portrait.
Tell students that they are
1. Write a sentence about you and one of your
favorites.
going to create their own
2. Take a photo. In the photo, show the idea in
personal portraits. First, each
your sentence.
person should write a simple
You’re into . . .
sentence about one of their
Yes, it’s my
interests. Model this with a
favorite . . .

sentence of your own, such
F Work with a partner.
as, Soccer is my favorite sport
1. Student A: Show a partner your photo, not
or I’m into anime. Then tell
your sentence.
students to take a photo that
Student B: Make a sentence about Student
communicates the idea in
A’s photo.
their sentence. Students can
2. Change roles and repeat.
take a selfie or have someone
G Repeat F with three more people. Which
take the photo for them.
photos are your favorites?
(Some students may already
have a photo of themselves
in their phone.) If students
don’t have a phone or a way
to take a photo, they can draw
a self-portrait or create it in
Lesson B | 11
another way. This step can be
assigned for homework.

F Work with a partner. 15 min
G Repeat F with three more
Pair students and have them
people. Which photos are your
share their photos. The person
favorites? 20–25 min
looking at the photo should
© National Geographic Learning
Have students repeat F with
caption their partner’s picture
different partners so that they
(i.e., write a sentence about
can see different classmates’
the person in the photo and
photos. Close by asking
the person’s interests). Help
students, Which photos are
students with vocabulary as
your favorites? What did you
needed. Finally, students
learn about your classmates?
should see if the captions their
partner wrote for them match
the captions they wrote for
themselves. Have volunteers
tell the class.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson B | 11

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 17 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 48 ────────

LISTENING

3

2    1

A Point to a photo. Tell a partner about it. Use a sentence in the box.
Take turns.

It’s a reality show. It’s a scary show. It’s a soccer game.

B Listen for details. Listen to a man and woman talk about TV shows.
Number each show (1, 2, or 3) as they talk about it. 9

C Infer. Listen again. Which show do they watch?
© National Geographic Learning2
Write the number. 9

D Do people watch shows like this in your country?
What other shows are popular in your country? Tell a partner.

Soccer is popular.

. . . is also popular.

12 | UNIT 1

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 18 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 49 ────────

C Infer. Listen again. Which show do they watch?
LISTENING
Write the number. 9 10–15 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Tell students to listen again. This time, the goal
is to answer the question: which show do they
Look at the three photos with the class. Have
watch. Ask, When do you think you will hear this
students describe the things they see in each one.
answer? At the beginning of the conversation?
Model one example by pointing to the soccer ball
the middle? the end? Students will realize that
and saying, soccer ball. Then have volunteers
they need to pay close attention to the end of the
call out other things they see in the photos. Help
audio to find the answer. Explain that the people
students with vocabulary.
might not say the answer directly.

If students struggle to understand what the
A Point to a photo. Tell a partner about it. Use a
people are saying, project the audio script and
sentence in the box. Take turns. 5–10 min
read it with students. Then have them listen, read
Have students work in pairs. With their partner,
along, and choose their answer.
tell them to point to match the sentence
that goes with each photo. To help students
Infer. In a conversation, speakers don’t always
understand the meaning of reality show, give
say something explicitly (e.g., I want to watch the
an example of a popular reality TV show in your
soccer game.), but we are still able to infer (or
country. Translate the word scary into students’
guess) what they want or mean by the things they
native language or tell them to look it up in their
say. After students listen and write their answer,
dictionaries. Then check answers with the class.
ask them to explain it. What did the man and
Remind students that in the reading exercise,
woman say? At one point, for example, the woman
they looked at the photos before they read. In
suggested, Look, there’s a soccer game on now.
this listening exercise, doing the same thing can
At the end, the man says, Nah. Go back to the
prepare them to understand the things speakers
game. From this, we can infer that they decide
are going to say.
to watch the soccer game and not the other two
shows, even though neither the man or woman
said directly, I want to watch the soccer game.
B Listen for details. Listen to a man and woman
talk about TV shows. Number each show (1, 2, or
D Do people watch shows like this in your country?
3) as they talk about it. 9 10–15 min
What other shows are popular in your country?
Before doing this exercise, pre-teach the words
Tell a partner. 10 min
in the box below. Then read the directions with
Have students discuss the questions in pairs.
students. They are going to listen to a man and
Then call on volunteers to share their answers.
woman talk about three TV shows. Point to the
If students are from different countries, are the
three photos on the page. Tell students to focus
same shows popular in different countries?
on the order (1, 2, 3) in which they hear the
shows talked about. Then play the audio and
give students a minute to choose the correct
TEACHING TIP: Make listening exercises easier
order. Tell them to compare answers with a
Many learners find listening to audio in English
partner. Play the audio again, and then check
intimidating at first. Assure students that they
answers with the class.
will hear the audio more than once. After the first
listening, encourage students to compare answers
Listen for details. When we listen for details, we
with a partner and discuss what they heard before
are listening for specific information. In this case,
listening again. Also, remind students that most of
students need to identify the order in which
the time—even in our native languages—we aren’t
the couple talk about the TV shows. To do this,
listening to every word a person says. Instead,
students don’t have to understand everything the
encourage students to focus on a purpose for
speakers say. Tell them instead to focus on key
listening in each exercise: to know generally what
words (important or main words) the man and
something is about, for example, or to find specific
woman use. In this case, students might listen
details. Doing these things will make listening tasks
for words like zombies, scary, soccer, reality
© National Geographic Learningmore manageable for students and will help them
show, or game.
feel more confident.
MORE WORDS
great
on TV (available to watch now)
zombies

Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson B | 12a

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 19 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 50 ────────

Have them check answers with a partner by
GRAMMAR
reading the sentences in each exercise aloud.
Are there any sentences they had difficulty with?
WARM-UP 15 min
Tell them to circle these. Check answers as a
Write on the board or project these sentences:
class, paying special attention to the sentences
1. I am a student. / 2. Soccer is my favorite sport. /
that students struggled with.
3. They are famous pop singers.
Alternatively, teachers may wish to assign
Below them, respectively, write or project these
the exercises in the Grammar Reference
questions: Are you a student? / Is soccer your
for homework and tell students to bring any
favorite sport? / Are they famous pop singers?
questions they have about the grammar point to
Have students look at the statements and
the next class meeting.
questions. Elicit what is different in the question
forms. (The first two words—the noun and verb—
LANGUAGE TIP: Short answers with be
change place in the sentence. / In sentence 1, I am
changes to Are you. / In sentence 2, my changes to
In affirmative short answers, contractions aren’t
your.) Then say each question with the class. Point
used: Are you a student? Yes, I am. (Yes, I’m.)
out that intonation rises slightly when you ask a
With negative short answers, there is (often)
Yes / No question.
more than one way to say no. (Is he a student?
No, he’s not. / No, he isn’t.) Note: To keep things
Next, write these sentences: I’m the teacher. / He’s
manageable, you may want to encourage students
a soccer player. / They’re students.
to use the first option only (e.g., No, he’s not.).
Tell students to write the question form for each
sentence in their notebooks.
B Complete the conversations. Then practice them
Then ask volunteers to call out the questions.
with a partner. 15 min
Write them on the board. Next to each, write the
Do the first item with the class. Then have
appropriate short answers. Make sure that students
students work individually to complete 2–6. Have
understand the meaning of yes and no. (Nod your
them check answers in pairs by practicing the
head in the appropriate direction.) Then go around
conversations aloud. Finally, check answers as
the class and ask several students the questions.
a class by calling on student pairs to read their
Tell them to answer with the appropriate short
answers aloud.
answer.

C Ask a partner the six questions in B. This time,
TEACHING TIP: Discover the grammar rule
talk about yourselves. 15 min
In the Warm-Up exercise, the teacher presents
Give students a minute to think about their own
examples of the target grammar point and works
answers to the questions in B. Then have them
with the class to “discover” the rules for forming
take turns asking and answering questions with
Yes / No questions with be. Studies show that
a partner.
this kind of guided discovery technique can help
students learn and recall information better than
EXTRA! Ask about the reading 15–20 min
studying a chart alone.
Have students look back at the reading and
individually write three Yes / No questions about
A Read the Unit 1, Lesson B Grammar Reference
the people in it. At least one question should use
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
they. Put one idea on the board to get students
the exercises below. 30 min
started (e.g., Is Jessica a university student? ). Then
have students work in pairs to ask and answer the
Look at the grammar chart in the Grammar
questions, using short answers. If the answer is no,
Reference with the class. Read through the
they should give the correct information.
questions and have students repeat. Point out
© National Geographic Learning
to students the different affirmative and negative
short answers, some of which you’ve already
CULTURE TIP: Lin-Manuel Miranda
introduced. Practice saying these with the class
Lin-Manuel Miranda (in the center of the photo) is
(see Language Tip).
a playwright, actor, and rap singer from New York
Then have students work in pairs. Have one
City. He is probably best known for writing and
student ask each question. The person’s partner
performing in the award-winning Broadway musical
can choose a yes or no reply to answer. Then
Hamilton. The show tells the story of Alexander
have students switch and repeat. Circulate,
Hamilton, one of the US’s “founding fathers,” using
paying attention to student pronunciation. Finally,
lively hip-hop and R&B music.
have students do the exercises in the appendix.

13a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 20 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 51 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 1, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
exercises. Then do the exercises below.

YES / NO QUESTIONS WITH BE SHORT ANSWERS

Be Pronoun Affirmative Negative
Am I in this class? Yes, you are. No, you’re not. / No, you aren’t.
Are you Yes, I am. No, I’m not.
a student?
Is he / she Yes, he / she is. No, he’s not. / No, she isn’t.
your favorite
Is it Yes, it is. No, it’s not. / No, it isn’t.
team?
Are they pop singers? Yes, they are. No, they’re not. / No, they aren’t.

B Complete the conversations. Then practice them with a partner.
Are you
1. A: a student?
I am
B: Yes, .
Is
2. A: English your native language?
it’s not / it isn’t
B: No, .
Are you
3. A: from here?
I’m not
B: No, . I’m from Mexico City.
Is
4. A: Cristiano Ronaldo your favorite soccer player?
he’s not / he isn’t
B: No, . I’m not into soccer.
Is
5. A: Lin-Manuel Miranda your favorite singer?
he is
B: Yes, . His music is great.
Are you
6. A: friends with anyone from the US?
I am
B: Yes, . My friend Adam is from New York.

C Ask a partner the six questions in B. This time, talk about yourselves.
Are you a    Is Lin-Manuel Miranda
student? Yes, I am. your favorite singer?    No, he isn’t.
My favorite is . . .

Lin-Manuel Miranda performs
in his musical Hamilton.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 13

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 21 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 52 ────────

Star Wars: The Rise
of Skywalker

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A WRITING Take four small pieces of paper. Write a sentence on each paper
about a favorite . . .

singer or band sport or video game TV show or movie website or podcast

My favorite movie is Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker.

B Give one sentence from A to your teacher.

C Your teacher will give you a classmate’s sentence. Ask your classmates
Yes / No questions. Find the writer of the sentence.
Is Star Wars your
favorite movie?

No, it’s not.

Yes, it is! It’s
© National Geographic Learningmy sentence.
D Repeat C with a different sentence.

1B GOALS Now I can . . .
1. Yes, I can.
Talk about my favorites
2. Mostly, yes.
Ask about a person’s interests
3. Not yet.

14 | UNIT 1

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 22 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 53 ────────

basketball? If you didn’t write that, and it’s also
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
not true about you, you would answer, No, it’s
not. But if basketball is your favorite sport and
WARM-UP 10 min
you did write it, you would answer, Yes, it is. It’s
Tell students to cover the entire page except for the
my sentence. Once students understand what
photo. Then ask the class what movie it is. Poll the
to do, tell them to stand up with the paper they
class on how many people know it. (Students can
received and ask their classmates their question
raise their hands.) For people who know it, ask, Is
until they find the writer. When a student finds
it a good movie? Then write this incomplete (and
the correct person, he or she can sit down.
incorrect) sentence on the board: my favorite movie
Encourage students to not be the last person
star wars: the rise of skywalker
standing!
Tell students that there are some mistakes in the
sentence. Ask volunteers to help you correct them.
D Repeat C with a different sentence. 20–30 min
As you make each edit, point out the reason. (See
Repeat B and C with a different sentence. And
the rules in the Writing Tip below.) The corrected
then do the task twice more. Finish with a wholesentence should read as follows, with edits
class discussion of interesting and surprising
highlighted:
things students learned about their classmates.
My favorite movie is Star Wars: The Rise of
Diagnostics
Skywalker.
Check students’ competencies as follows:
• Can they write simple sentences that have a
WRITING TIP: Basic sentence rules
subject and a verb and follow capitalization and
• All sentences have a subject and a verb.
punctuation rules?
• The first word in a sentence starts with a capital
• Can they talk about their favorite music, sports,
letter.
movies, and TV shows?
• Proper nouns are capitalized. Examples of proper
• Can they ask Yes / No questions with be?
nouns include a person’s name, as well as the
• Can they answer Yes / No questions with be
name of a movie, TV show, song, video game, or
using short answers?
website.
• Sentences that are statements end with a period.
1B
GOALS
Review students’ self-assessment in the
A WRITING Take four small pieces of paper. Write a
goals box. Point out to students where in the
sentence on each paper about a favorite . . .
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
10 min
they can review those exercises to improve
Ask students to take four small pieces of paper.
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
On each, they should write a sentence about
Talk about your favorites: Vocabulary,
one of their interests, as modeled on the page.
page 9, A–D; Reading, page 11, E–G;
Remind them to pay attention to capitalization,
Grammar, page 13, A–C; Active English,
punctuation, and grammar. Circulate, helping
page 14, A, C, and D.
students with vocabulary and checking their
sentences.
Ask about a person’s interests: Grammar,
page 13, A–C; Active English, page 14,
C and D.
B Give one sentence from A to your teacher.
5 min

Collect one sentence from each student. Then
NOTES
distribute the sentences so that every student
has one that is not their own.
© National Geographic Learning
C Your teacher will give you a classmate’s sentence.
Ask your classmates Yes / No questions. Find the
writer of the sentence. 10 min
Tell students to read the sentence they received.
Their goal is to find the writer of the sentence. To
do this, they should circulate and ask a question.
To model the exercise, write on the board, My
favorite sport is basketball. Demonstrate that a
classmate might ask you Is your favorite sport

Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson B | 14a

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 23 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 54 ────────

B Watch again. Write a last name or nickname in A.
GLOBAL VOICES
10–15 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Watch the video again. This time, tell students
to write a person’s last name or nickname in the
Look at the photo and ask, Where is this place?
chart. Note that sometimes the person’s name is
(Answer: Shanghai, China) Then look at the Word
on screen, and students can simply copy it into
Bank and say the two place names with the class.
the chart. In other cases—with Gina, Laura, and
Tell students: The people in the video are from these
Abel—students have to listen as the people spell
places and other cities. Then direct students to the
their last names. Pause the video as needed
chart in A and tell them: These are the names of the
and replay it more than once so students have a
people in the video.
chance to complete the chart.

ABOUT THE VIDEO
CULTURE TIP: The Terminator
In the video, people from different countries
introduce themselves and spell their names; two
Herman Van der Muellen (one of the people in
people also talk about their interests. As students
the video) is from Holland. His nickname, the
watch, they’ll have the opportunity to hear English
Hermanator, rhymes with The Terminator, an
spoken with different accents, which even at the
American science-fiction film series starring
beginning level can be very helpful.
Austrian American actor Arnold Schwarzenegger.

CULTURE TIP: English as a lingua franca
C Watch Lissette and Abel again. What are they
into? Write the answers (a–e) in the chart. Two
English is the most spoken language in the world
answers are extra. 5 min
with approximately 1.2 billion speakers (or roughly
15% of the global population). Roughly 350–400
Read the direction line and the five answers with
million people speak English as their first language,
students. Then play the last part of the video
but the majority speak it as a second (or third)
again, where Lissette and Abel answer the
language in order to communicate in a variety of
question What are your favorite types of music
different settings (in the workplace, at school, while
and sports? Tell students to complete the chart
traveling, or online).
with the correct answers. Two are extra.

ABOUT THE SPEAKERS
D Ask and answer the questions with a partner.
10–15 min
The people in the video come from different countries
and were interviewed on the street in these three
Have students work with a partner to ask and
places: Lima, Peru; Lisbon, Portugal; Shanghai,
answer the questions about the people in the
China. (Note that students will be learning more
chart.
about countries and city names in Unit 2.)
Student A should ask questions 1–4. Student B
should ask questions 5–8. Do the first one with
A Look at the names in the chart. Then watch the
the class to model the exercise.
video. Don’t write anything. 5–10 min
Have students look at the chart. Point out the
EXTRA! Post-viewing role play 15–20 min
four categories: first name, last name, nickname,
Have students work with a partner. Tell each pair
and favorites (the person’s interests). Tell
to choose two different people from the chart in
students, These are things you learn about in
A and role-play a short conversation between the
the video. For the first viewing, simply have
speakers. In their conversation, they should greet
students watch the video once through. Then
and introduce themselves (which recycles the
ask students if they feel the video is easy or hard
Speaking Strategy students learned in the unit).
to understand. Take any questions.
They should also ask the other person one or two
© National Geographic Learning
questions, using language they learned in the unit
VIDEO VIEWING TIP: Watch once through
or on this page—for example: What’s your last
name? Can you spell (your first name, last name)?
As a warm-up, it can sometimes be helpful for
Are you from . . .? Is . . . your nickname? Are you
students to watch a video all (or most) of the
into . . . (the Terminator movies)? Is . . . your favorite
way through once without having to do any
movie? You’re into salsa. Are you a good dancer?
exercises. This gives learners a chance to see
Then have one pair role-play their conversation for
what’s happening in the video and helps them get
another. Close the exercise by asking volunteers to
comfortable listening to the speakers.
do one of their role plays for the class.

15a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 24 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 55 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A Look at the names in the chart. Then watch the video. Don’t write anything.

First name Last name Nickname Favorites
WORD BANK
1 Fabrizio Riccadeli
Beijing, China
Lee    Florence, Italy
2 Vera
Lizzy c
3 Lissette
Hermanator
4 Herman Van der Muellen The
Viviano
5 Gina
Lopez
6 Laura
Irribarren    b, e
7 Abel

B Watch again. Write a last name or nickname in A.

C Watch Lissette and Abel again. What are they into? Write the answers (a–e) in the chart.
Two answers are extra.

a. hip-hop b. salsa music c. reggaeton d. basketball e. soccer

Is he from China?
D Ask and answer the questions with a partner.
No, he isn’t. He’s . . .
Student A: Ask questions 1–4. Student B: Ask questions 5–8.

1. Fabrizio: Is he from China?
6. Gina: Can you spell her last name?
No, he isn’t. He’s from Italy.
V-I-V-I-A-N-O
L-E-E.
2. Vera: Can you spell her last name?
7. Laura: Is her last name Perez? Can you spell
No, it isn’t. It’s Lopez. L-O-P-E-Z.
her last name?
3. Lissette: Is her nickname Lisa? Is she into
No, it isn’t. It’s Lizzy. / No. She’s into
hip-hop?
8. Abel: Is he into salsa? Is his favorite sport
reggaeton.
Yes, he is. / No, it isn’t. It’s soccer.
basketball?
4. Crispin: Is Chris his first name?
No, it isn’t. It’s Crispín.
5. Herman: What’s his nickname? Can you
The Hermanator.
spell it?
H- E-R-M-A-N-A-T-O-R.

The Bund, Shanghai, China

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 15

WLTB_INT_U01_ptg01.indd 25 22/05/21 6:00 PM

──────── Page 56 ────────

UNIT 2

ABOUT THE PHOTO    2
This photo shows Parliament
Hill in Ottawa, Canada. Its three
governmental buildings overlook
the Ottawa River. Ottawa is the
seventh coldest capital in the world
COUNTRIESLOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
(Ulan Bator, Mongolia is first), but it
QUESTIONS.
still has four distinct seasons.
1. Ottawa is the capital of Canada. What is the
capital city of your country?

2. There are many tourists in Ottawa. Are there
INTRODUCE THE THEME
many tourists in your city?
In Unit 2, we introduce students
WARM-UP VIDEO
to the world (cities, countries,
and nationalities). English, like
A Listen. Say each country after the speaker. 10
most languages, changes the
✓    ✓ ✓
France Peru Thailand
pronunciation of most country
✓    ✓
Jordan Russia Turkey
names and adapts it to make
it easier for native speakers of
B Watch the video. Check (✓) the countries in A
English to say. Your students may
that you see in the video. One is extra.
be surprised to learn how some
C Watch again. Say three other countries in the
countries are pronounced in
video. Tell a partner.
English. This is part of the fun of
learning these words.
D Listen. Say each city after the speaker. 11
Bangkok Istanbul
In Lesson A, students will learn and
Cusco La Paz
practice saying country names and
Fes New York
nationality words. They will then
Granada Paris
have to recognize those words in
a listening exercise. They will learn
E Do you know the cities and their countries?
Guess. Then watch the video and match them.
how to ask where someone is
a. Bolivia
1. Paris
from and how to respond to such
b. France
2. Granada
a question. The grammar focus
c. Morocco
3. Istanbul
is on Wh- questions with who and
d. Peru
4. La Paz
where. Finally, students will get
e. Spain
5. Fes
to play a fun board game that
f. Thailand
6. New York
brings together everything they’ve
g. Turkey
7. Cusco
learned in the lesson.
h. USA
8. Bangkok
In Lesson B, students turn their
F Which place in the video is your favorite? Tell
attention to cities and adjectives
a partner.
used to describe them. They
then read about a dynamic
city. The grammar focus is on
two sentence patterns that use
adjectives (be + adjective and
Look at the photo. Answer the
WARM-UP VIDEO
be + adjective + noun). Students
questions. 5–10 min
About the Video
close out the lesson by writing
This video is a time-lapse
Point to the building in the photo.
and talking about a great place to
compilation of 6,237 photos
Say, This is in Ottawa, Canada.
go on vacation.
taken over 343 days through
Ottawa is a city. Ottawa is the
© National Geographic Learning
17 countries.
capital city of Canada. Ask the
WARM-UP 5–10 min
class to answer question 1. Next,
Some of the countries (and cities)
have students look up the word
On the board, write the name
that appear in this video are:
famous in their dictionary. Give
of your country. Ask students to
Argentina (Buenos Aires), Bolivia
pairs of students one minute to
give you the names of three or
(La Paz), Egypt (Cairo), France
come up with a famous place
four nearby countries. Write these
(Paris), Indonesia (Bali—not
in their country to share with
on the board, too. How do you
a city), Japan (Narita), Jordan
the class. You could also have
pronounce these country names
(Amman), Morocco (Fes), Peru
students think of a famous place
in English? Give your students
(Cusco), Portugal (Lisbon),
they know in the world.
a moment to practice and then
Spain (Granada), Thailand
model the pronunciation for them.

16 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 2

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 2 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 57 ────────

(Bangkok), Turkey (Istanbul),
The Parliament building in Ottawa,
the United Kingdom (London),
the capital city of Canada.
the United States (Los Angeles),
Uruguay (Montevideo).

A Listen. Say each country after
the speaker. 10 5 min
Give your students a moment
to study the list of countries.
Have them practice saying
them aloud. Model the country
names and then say them
again and have your students
repeat after you. Some things
to watch out for: 1) Peru is
pronounced in English without
rolling the “r”; 2) The second
syllable of Russia is a “sh”
sound; 3) The “h” in Thailand is
silent. If you have a world map,
show students where these
countries are located.

B Watch the video. Check (✓) the
countries in A that you see in
the video. One is extra.
5–10 min

As a warm-up, have students
just watch 30 seconds of the
video without doing anything.
This will familiarize them with
the format of the video. Start
the video again and have
students watch and check the
countries that they see.

C Watch again. Say three other
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
/ Name countries and nationalities    / Talk about a city
countries in the video. Tell a
/ Ask where someone is from    / Describe a good vacation place
partner. 5 min
Play the video. After the video
has ended, put students into
pairs to share their answers.
E Do you know the cities and
F Which place in the video is
Then come back together as a
your favorite? Tell a partner.
their countries? Guess. Then
class and have students shout
5 min
watch the video and match
out their answers while you
them. 5–10 min
Take a class vote to decide the
compile a list on the board.
top three places.
Look back at the list of
© National Geographic Learning
countries the class compiled
on the board. Add to this list
D Listen. Say each city after the
any of the countries in E that
speaker. 11 5 min
aren’t on the board already. As
Now students are going to
a class, before you watch, try
practice saying some city
to guess which cities go with
names in English. Play the
which countries.
audio while students listen
and repeat.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 2 | 17

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 3 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 58 ────────

2A AROUND THE WORLD

A woman carrying the Swiss flag at the
Olympic Games.

VOCABULARY
A PRONUNCIATION: Stressed syllables Listen and repeat.
Country Nationality
Say the countries and nationalities in the chart. 12
China    Chinese
Japan    Japanese
Portugal    Portuguese
B PRONUNCIATION: Stressed syllables Listen and repeat
Australia    Australian
again. Which nationality words are stressed on the last
Brazil    Brazilian
syllable? 12
Chinese, Japanese, Portuguese
Peru    Peruvian
Korea    Korean
The same syllable    A different syllable
Mexico    Mexican
is stressed    is stressed
the United States    American
Bra ZIL Bra ZIL ian CHI na Chi NESE
Spain    Spanish
the United Kingdom British
Turkey    Turkish
C Where is each flag from? Write your answers. Tell a partner.
1. Canada    3. Jamaica
Canadian    Jamaican
It’s the flag.    It’s the flag.

© National Geographic Learning
2. Spain    4. China
Spanish    Chinese
It’s the flag.    It’s the flag.

D Where are you from? What language(s) do you speak? Tell a partner.

18 | UNIT 2

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 4 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 59 ────────

over the two examples (Brazil and China) and
2A AROUND THE WORLD
point out that while we say CHI na, the stress
shifts when we say Chi NESE. Play the audio and
VOCABULARY
have students repeat. Play the audio again and
Optional prep
have students tap out the syllables, emphasizing
Come to class with some examples of flags from
each stressed syllable with a louder tap. Call on
different countries. You can use this information in
individual students to tap out different words.
C below.
Were they able to figure out which nationality
words are stressed on the last syllable?
WARM-UP 5–10 min
CULTURE NOTE: Blended nationalities
With books closed, show students the photo on the
page (with the caption covered up). Ask them to
Some people will use two words for their nationality.
identify the scene and the flag. (If they don’t know the
The first word describes their country of origin
flag, tell them it’s from a country in Europe as a hint.)
and the second word is where they live now (e.g.,
Japanese Peruvian, Mexican American).
Write Around the World on the board. Tell students
that in this lesson they are going to learn how to say
where a person is from (i.e., someone’s nationality).
C Where is each flag from? Write your answers. Tell
Start out by playing a quick game. Ask your
a partner. 10 min
students to stand up. Go around the room and have
Have students work alone and write their
each student say the name of any country they
answers. Then put them in pairs and have them
choose in English. Don’t worry about pronunciation
compare their answers. Have them check the
at this point. If they hesitate too long, they have to
spelling of the nationality words. Have individual
sit down and they are out of the game. (You can
students come to the front and write their
be the timekeeper.) The last person standing is the
answers on the board.
winner.

TEACHING TIP: Let your students try first
LARGE CLASS OPTION
Don’t give students the answer right away. Let
If you have an especially large class, divide
them struggle on their own for a bit, trying to sound
students into groups of 8–10 students and have
out the word. This process of finding the answer
each group play the game separately. How “far”
on their own is an important part of the learning
was each group able to go?
process and encourages students to be active
learners. Model the following language for students.
Have them listen and repeat. This flag is from
A PRONUNCIATION: Stressed syllables Listen
Canada. It’s the Canadian flag.
and repeat. Say the countries and nationalities in
the chart. 12 5–10 min
Ask students to look at the words in the chart
EXTRA! Flags and nationality words
on the right. The chart is in four sections. How
10–15 min
are the words grouped together? Why are they
Bring in a chart of different flags. You can also
separated in this way? Ask students what they
project a picture of flags on the wall. Choose five
think. (Answer: The words are grouped by the
or six different flags and assign a flag to each
endings of the nationality words: -ese, -ish, etc.)
pair of students. (Make sure not to choose overly
Play the audio. The first time, have students listen
complicated ones.) First, one person in each group
only. The second time, have them listen and
should draw the flag. The other student should write
repeat. Next, explain to students what a syllable
the country name and nationality word under it.
is. (A syllable is each unit of a word. It contains a
Have students post their flags around the room. All
vowel sound and usually one or more consonant
students can then circulate, looking at the drawings
sounds.) Have them go through the words in the
and practicing saying, This is the (nationality word)
© National Geographic Learning
box on their own. As they whisper each word, they
flag.
should tap out the syllables on their desks. Call out
random words and ask individual students to tell
D Where are you from? What language(s) do you
you how many syllables the word has.
speak? Tell a partner. 5 min
Have students write down their names, their
B PRONUNCIATION: Stressed syllables Listen
country, their nationality, and the languages
and repeat again. Which nationality words are
they speak. They should practice saying it
stressed on the last syllable? 12 5–10 min
aloud: I’m (name). I’m from (country name).
This time, ask students to focus on the syllable
I’m (nationality). I speak (languages).
in each word that has the strongest stress. Go

Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson A | 18a

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 5 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 60 ────────

England. Do not use English to refer to people from
LISTENING
Scotland, Wales, or Northern Ireland.
WARM-UP 5 min
Ask students to keep their books closed. Write the
B Listen for confirmation. Listen. Check your
name of a TV quiz show on the board. Ask students
answers in A. 14 10 min
to shout out the names of other shows they know. Do
To make this exercise more engaging, designate
they like these kinds of shows? Have students vote
different areas of the classroom as A, B, and
yes or no with a show of hands. Tell them that they
C. Tell students that when they hear the clue
are going to listen to part of a TV quiz show.
read, they should go and stand in the area that
To prepare students for the listening, introduce
represents the answer they chose.
students to the word tourist. Point at the photo of
Play the audio. Stop the audio before the first
Machu Picchu on the page. Say, This is Machu
answer is read to give students time to stand next
Picchu. It is famous. People from Peru, Brazil, Chile,
to their letter. To make the exercise even more fun,
the United States, and many other countries go
you can give students the choice to change their
here. Tourists from all over the world go here.
answer and move to a different area of the room
Review the words in the Word Bank. Use a student’s
if they’re not confident in their answer. Resume the
home city and country as an example. Say, (city
audio and have students listen to the answer and
name) is a city in (country name). For capital cities,
write a check mark if they got it right. Go through
say, (city name) is the capital of (country name).
the entire audio in this way.

CULTURE TIP: The Americas
LANGUAGE TIP: Suffixes for nationalities

North America, in a general sense, refers to Mexico,
There are many different suffixes for nationality
the United States, Canada, and—to an extent—
words in English. In addition to the ones featured
Central America. However, there are variances in
in this lesson, there is also -er, -ic, and -i. Some
what defines North America, from the landmass
nationality words don’t fit neatly into any category
it occupies and its geographical boundaries to
(e.g., French, Greek, Welsh).
its cultural regions, as part of the Americas (the
continental mass comprised by North America,
C People from New Zealand are New Zealanders.
Central America, and South America). Write North
They are also called “Kiwis.” Look at your answers
America and South America on the board and show
in A. Name each nationality. 5 min
the two areas of the world on a map. Note that the
word American in American English refers to people
Have students work in pairs and practice saying
of the United States only. This differs from the word
the nationality words for each answer. First have
americano in Spanish, which refers to people from
them try the exercise with the Vocabulary page
both American continents.
covered up. If they need additional help, they
can check the chart on that page for assistance.

A Where in the World? is a TV game show. Listen
EXTRA! City and country names 15 min
to each clue. Then circle the correct answer.
13 10 min
To give students more practice with city and country
names, write the following three sentences on the
Have students read the options. Play the audio.
board:
You may want to pause the audio for five to ten
seconds after each clue to give students time
___ is the capital city of this country. ___ is in this
to consider their answers. Have students get
country. ___ is from this country.
together in pairs and compare their answers.
Model how these sentences work. For the second
You can pre-teach these responses that students
one, for example, you could say, Machu Picchu is
can use by writing some simple math equations
in this country. The answer would be Peru. For the
© National Geographic Learning
on the board.
third sentence, you could say Spaghetti is from this
country. The answer would be Italy.
1 + 1 = 2 ✓ (That’s right. That’s correct.)
Put students into small groups. Each group is
1 + 1 = 3 ✗ (That’s wrong. That’s incorrect.)
responsible for choosing one of the three model
sentences and making a quiz item about it. After each
CULTURE TIP: The United Kingdom
group has a sentence, ask a representative from each
The United Kingdom refers to England, Scotland,
group to read their sentence aloud. The other students
Wales, and Northern Ireland (but not the Republic
should try to guess the name of the country. Once
of Ireland). People from the United Kingdom are
they have settled on their answer (collectively), the
British. It’s important to note that British and English
group can then say, That’s right or That’s wrong. Which
are not the same; English refers to people only from
groups were able to stump their classmates?

19a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 6 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 61 ────────

LISTENING

A Where in the World? is a TV game show. Listen to each clue. Then circle
the correct answer. 13
WORD BANK
1. a. the United States b. Canada c. Mexico
city
2. a. Canada b. Brazil c. the United Kingdom
country
3. a. Australia b. Argentina c. New Zealand
4. a. France b. the United States c. China
5. a. Brazil b. Chile c. Peru
6. a. Thailand b. Vietnam c. Malaysia

B Listen for confirmation. Listen. Check your answers in A. 14

✓ That’s right. / That’s correct.
✘ That’s wrong. / That’s incorrect.

C People from New Zealand are New Zealanders. They are also called “Kiwis.”
Look at your answers in A. Name each nationality.
1. Canadian; 2. British; 3. New Zealander; 4. French; 5. Peruvian; 6. Vietnamese

Machu Picchu, Peru

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson A | 19

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 7 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 62 ────────

SPEAKING

Ana is from Bogota, Colombia.
A Listen to the conversation. Where is Ana from? Where is Haru from? 15
Haru is from Tokyo, Japan.
Haru: Excuse me. Are you in this class?    Ana: You, too. So, where are you from, Haru?

Ana: Yes, I am. Are you?    Haru: Japan.

Haru: Yeah. Hi, my name’s Haru.    Ana: Cool. Which city?

Ana: Hi, I’m Ana.    Haru: Tokyo. How about you? Where are you

Haru: Great to meet you.    from?
Ana: Bogota, Colombia.

Tokyo, Japan

B Now practice the conversation in A with a partner. Replace the
SPEAKING STRATEGY 16
underlined words with your own information.
Asking where someone is from
Where are you from?
C Think of a famous person. Write his or her information below.
(I’m from) Japan.
Really? Which city?
Name:
(I’m from) Tokyo.
City and country:
Really? Where exactly?
(I’m from) a small town near Tokyo.
Are you from Colombia?
© National Geographic Learning
D Imagine you are a famous person at a party. Meet three people using
Yes, I am. / No, I’m from Peru.
the Speaking Strategy.

Hi, I’m Rafael
Nadal.
Hi, Rafael. Where
are you from?

I’m from
Spain.
Really?
Which city?

20 | UNIT 2

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 8 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 63 ────────

LANGUAGE TIP: Cool
SPEAKING
We use the word cool in response to something
WARM-UP 5–10 min
that we think is fashionable, attractive, or
interesting. Ana probably uses the word because
Work with books closed. If possible, come to class
she doesn’t know many people from Japan, and
with five to ten photos of famous people from
she’s interested in Haru.
different countries. Show students the photos and
have them say where each person is from (If they
don’t know, they should guess!). When students
SPEAKING STRATEGY 16 5 min
give their responses, encourage them to say the
Have students look at the Speaking Strategy box.
country and nationality of the person as well as the
Read through the questions and responses as
languages they speak: She’s from Germany. She’s
students repeat. Then ask individual students
German. She speaks German. If you don’t have
random questions from the box and have them
photos, you can do this by simply saying the names
respond with their own information.
of the famous people.

B Now practice the conversation in A with a partner.
A Listen to the conversation. Where is Ana from?
Replace the underlined words with your own
Where is Haru from? 15 10 min
information. 10–15 min
With books closed introduce the word who to
Have students decide who will be the first
students. Explain that it is a question word and
speaker and who will be the second. Give
that we use it to ask questions about people.
students a minute to think of the information
(This will be covered more thoroughly in the
that they will substitute in the conversation. Tell
upcoming grammar lesson.) Tell students they
them to practice with their partner and then to
are going to listen to a conversation between
switch roles. Call on several pairs to present
two speakers named Haru and Ana. Write this
their conversation to the class.
question on the board and ask students to listen
for the answer: Who are Haru and Ana? (Answer:
They’re students.) Play the audio once.
C Think of a famous person. Write his or her
information below. 5 min
With books still closed, ask students to write a
Each student will take on the role of a famous
chart like this in their notebooks:
person. If students are having trouble thinking
of someone, allow them to use their phones to
City Country
research some ideas. They should write the
Haru
person’s name and the city and country they
Ana
are from.
Play the audio again and have students write
their answers in their notebooks. Then ask them
D Imagine you are a famous person at a party. Meet
to open their books, read the conversation
three people using the Speaking Strategy.
silently, and check their answers. They can fix
10 min
any spelling mistakes at this point, too. Go over
Write this conversation on the board:
the answers as a class. Play the audio one last
A: Hi, my name is .
time so students can follow along with their
books open.
B: Hi, I’m .
A: Great to meet you.
TEACHING OPTION 5–10 min
B: You, too.
The grammar focus for Lesson A is “questions
A: Where are you from?
and answers with who and where.” If you want to
Students should stand up and mill about as if
preview the grammar here, you can do so by prethey are at a party. Using the conversation on
teaching the question word where in addition to
the board as a prompt, they should meet at
who (taught already). Say, Who is a question word.
© National Geographic Learningleast three other people, introducing themselves
Find two more question words in the conversation.
and saying where they are from. Once they are
Circle them. Students should find where (used to
finished, erase the prompt from the board and
ask about place) and which (used to ask about
have students do the exercise again.
one or more things from a limited number). Ask
students the question, Who is from Tokyo? Who
is from Bogota? (Answers: Haru is. Ana is.) Then
ask, Where is Haru / Ana from? (Answers: Tokyo. /
Bogota.)

TEXT OVERSET
Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson A | 20a

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 9 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 64 ────────

Have students read the directions and the
GRAMMAR
conversation. They should fill in each missing
word with the appropriate question word or
WARM-UP 5 min
preposition. Have students compare their
This lesson focuses on questions with who and
answers with a partner’s. Check answers with
where. Tell students to think back to the previous
the class and then have students practice the
speaking exercise and talk about the people they
conversation with their partner.
met. For each person, ask, Where is he / she from?

LANGUAGE TIP: Prepositions
A Read the Unit 2, Lesson A Grammar Reference
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
Prepositions are challenging for English language
the exercises below. 10–15 min
learners simply because there are so many of them!
We have tried to manage the input for students
Go over the information in the charts. Points to
by introducing them incrementally. In this lesson,
pay attention to:
students are learning some prepositions of place /
• Is is used with the pronouns he, she, and it,
location (at school, in China). Later in the course,
while are is used with we and they.
students will learn prepositions of time (Lesson 7A:
• The contracted form of is = ’s. It combines
in, on, and at) as well as prepositions of extended
with the question word that precedes it (who’s
time (Lesson 8B: for and from . . . to).
= who is; where’s = where is).
• The pronoun who is used to ask about people.
C Make a new conversation with a partner. Replace
The pronoun where is used to ask about places.
the underlined parts in B with the ideas below.
• Sometimes we omit the subject + be in short
10–15 min
answers.
Explain the exercise. First, model the conversation
If you assigned the Grammar Reference as
in the book with a student, with you taking the
homework, go over students’ work now. Put
role of Nor. Read the conversation. Then model
students into pairs and have them go over their
the conversation with another student, but this
answers together. Ensure that they are using the
time substitute your own ideas as you play the
preposition in before city and country names and
role of Nor again. (The students playing the role
at before place names like home, school, and
of Sara can read their parts from the book.) Have
work. (One exception: in class).
students work in pairs and choose one of the two
places (Beijing or Punta Cana) or any other place
TEACHING TIP: Building on Foundational
they know. They should then create their own
Knowledge
conversation and practice it a couple of times.
In Unit 1, Lesson B, students learned how to form
Yes / No questions with be. You can build on this
D Repeat Exercise C. Use a new city and place.
knowledge in the following way. Write the question
Sit back-to-back with your partner and have the
Are you at school? on the board. To show students
conversation. Try not to read the conversation.
how to change this to a Wh- question, write the
10 min
following steps on the board:
For this exercise, students can choose a new
Are you at school? ➔ (cross out the end of the
city or place. Optional: Have them use the same
sentence) Are you at school? ➔ (insert the question
place that they did in C. Sitting back-to-back,
word at the front and lowercase the word are)
they should role-play a telephone conversation.
Where are you?
Encourage them to not read entirely from their
books; they can glance at the page and then
Do the same thing with the sentence, Is Tomas a
look up to speak. For their last practice round,
student? and show students how to form the Whhave students try it with their books closed! Have
question (Who is Tomas? ). In this way, students can
some pairs of students perform their conversation
see that the verb be comes before the pronoun in
for the class with their books closed.
both Yes / No and Wh- questions.
© National Geographic Learning
E Work with a new partner. Talk about your
LANGUAGE TIP: Pronouncing question words
“phone call” in Exercise D. Where is your partner.
In many Wh- question words (like what, when,
Who is your partner with? 5 min
where, and why), the “h” sound is silent. However,
Assign students to new pairs and have them
when wh is followed by a long “o” sound (as in who,
take turns telling their partner about their phone
whom, and whose), the “h” sound is pronounced.
call: My phone call is with (name). She’s in (city,
country). She’s with (name of friend).
B Nor is talking to Sara on the phone. Complete
the conversation with who, where, at, or in. Then
practice with a partner. 10 min

21a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 10 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 65 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 2, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises.
Then do the exercises below.

QUESTIONS WITH WHO ANSWERS    QUESTIONS WITH WHERE ANSWERS

is    Where are you / they? (I’m / We’re / They’re) at the
Who with you? Tomas (is).
’s beach / a museum.

is    Nor? (She’s) in London / at her hotel.
Where
’s    Machu Picchu? (It’s) in Peru.

B Nor is talking to Sara on the phone. Complete the conversation with who, where, at, or in.
Then practice with a partner.

at
Sara: Hello?    Nor: I’m (5.) Buckingham Palace.
Nor: Sara? Hi, it’s Nor.    Oh, and I’m here with a friend.
Where    Who
Sara: Hi, Nor! (1.) are you?    Sara: Really? (6.) ’s with you?
in
Nor: I’m (2.) the UK. Right now,    Nor: Irina, from our English class. She
in    in
I’m (3.) London.    lives (7.) London now.
Where
Sara: (4.) exactly?    Sara: That’s great! Say “hi” for me.

C Make a new conversation with a partner. Replace the underlined parts in B with the ideas below.
1. Use your own names and choose one of these two places.
• Beijing, China / a cafe • Punta Cana, the Dominican Republic / a beach
2. At the end, use a classmate’s name.

D Repeat Exercise C. Use a new city and place. Sit back-to-back with your partner and have the
conversation. Try not to read the conversation.

Marta is in New York City
E Work with a new partner. Talk about your “phone call” in Exercise D.
with Diego. They’re in
Where is your partner? Who is your partner with?
Times Square.

© National Geographic Learning

Punta Cana,
the Dominican Republic
Lesson A | 21

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 11 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 66 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Directions: Play in pairs.
Heads
1. Put a marker on Start Here.
2. Take turns. Flip a coin.
Heads: Move one square. Tails: Move two squares.

3. Answer the question. For Free Question!, your partner
Tails
asks you about a city or country. Write your answers.

4. The game ends when you both reach square 24. Check
your answers. Each correct answer = 1 point. The
person with the most points wins.
Additional answers: 5. Mexico; 21. Brazil,
Colombia, Peru, Bolivia, Venezuela, Ecuador

1 What is the capital    2 What is the    3    4 Where is the
What is the    Where is the
What is the capital
city of Brazil?    nationality of a    city of Istanbul?
nationality of a    city of Dubai?
city of Brazil?
_____________    person from    Name the country.
Brasilia
person from    Name the
Shanghai? FREE QUESTION!
Turkey
Shanghai?    country.
Start Here
Chinese

This US city    Where is the
9 This US city is    8 Santiago is the    6 What is the    5 The 2026 World Cup
7
nicknamed    capital of this    capital of Egypt?    is in Canada, the
is nicknamed    2018 World Cup?
“The Big Apple.”    South American    United States, and
"The Big Apple."    Name the
Name the city.    country. Name    FREE QUESTION!    one other country.
Cairo
Name the city.    country.
New York City Chile
the country.    Name the country.

10 Who lives in    12 What is the    13 Who’s a famous    14 Car maker
11
Who's a famous    What is the    Who lives in    Car maker
Buckingham    capital of    soccer player from    Mercedes-Benz
soccer player from    capital of    Buckingham    Mercedes-Benz is
Palace in London?    Indonesia?    South America?    is from this country.
South America?    Indonesia?    Palace in    from this country.
the British royal    Jakarta Answers will vary.
FREE QUESTION!    Name the country.
London?    Name the country.
family Germany

19 What is the    18    17 The streets of this    16 Where is the    15 Name the two
What is the    Where are the    The streets of this    Name the two
nationality of a    Italian city are water.    Taj Mahal? Name    main languages
nationality of a    Petronas Towers?    Italian city are    main languages
person from    Name the city.    the country.    in Canada.
person from    Name the Asian    made of water.    in Canada.
Thailand? FREE QUESTION!
Thailand?    country. Extra    Name the city.
Venice India French and
Thai English
point: Name
the city.

20 The capital city is    21 The Amazon River    22    23 Name two African
The capital city    The Amazon River
Name two
is Vienna. Name the    in South America
Vienna. Name the    in South America    countries.
African countries.
goes through six
European country.    goes through six    Finish
European country.    countries. Name
countries.
Austria© National Geographic Learning Answers will vary.
three.
Name three.    FREE QUESTION!

Answers are on page 217.

2A GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Name countries and nationalities
2. Mostly, yes.
Ask where someone is from
3. Not yet.

22 | UNIT 2

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 12 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 67 ────────

Step 3 5 min Assign students to pairs and
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
explain the rest of the rules:
WARM-UP 5 min
• Students should toss the coin and move
Students are going to play a game. Before you
accordingly around the board.
get into explaining the rules, pass around some
• The player who is not moving that turn should
coins in class. Show students the two sides of the
read the question aloud to the player who
coin, indicated by “heads” and “tails.” Have students
landed on the square.
practice doing some coin tosses (see Cultural Tip).
• Players can occupy the same square.
• Players should write their answers quickly in
CULTURE TIP: Heads and tails
their notebooks in order to keep the game
Traditionally, “heads” refers to the side of a coin with
moving.
a head / face on it. “Tails” refers to the opposite side
• Once both players have finished, they should
of the coin (since it’s also the “opposite end” of a
look in the back of the book and score one
body). Coin tosses can be used to make a decision
point for each correct answer. The player with
between two choices. In today’s game, however, the
the most points wins!
coin toss is going to decide how far a player can
move on the board (one or two spaces).
Step 4 25–30 min Play the game!

A Directions: Play in pairs.
CLASSROOM MANAGEMENT: Speeding up
Step 1 5 min First, get students acquainted with
the game
the player board. With your finger, trace the path
If you have limited time, you can try one or both of
that they will be taking (from square 1 to Finish).
these options: 1) Make a rule that two players can’t
Explain how the coin toss works (heads: move
occupy the same space. Players should move to
one square; tails: move two squares). On most of
the next available space on the board. 2) Don’t wait
the squares, there is a question or a statement.
until both players reach the finish. Once one player
The player who lands on that square must write
has reached Finish, give the second player one
their guess in their notebooks. For example, if
more turn and then end the game.
they land on square 2, students would write the
following in their notebook: 2. Chinese. (The
Diagnostics
number two is for the number of the square.
Check students’ competencies as follows:
Students will need this when they check their
answers later.)
• Are students pronouncing country names
correctly?
Step 2 10–15 min There are five “Free Question”
• Are they using the proper endings and stress for
squares on the board. When a player lands on
nationality words?
this, they must answer a question from their
partner. Free questions are scored the same as
• Are they forming questions with who and where
any other questions on the board (one point for
without difficulty?
each correct answer).
• Are they responding to the Wh- questions with
short answers?
Each student should write their own “free
questions” in their notebooks before the game
• Are they pronouncing Wh- question words
starts. To help them with this, give them some
correctly?
sentence prompts that recycle patterns they have
learned previously in the lesson. Some ideas:
What is the capital city of Japan? (Answer: It’s
2A
GOALS
Tokyo.)
Review students’ self-assessment in the
What country is next to (country)? (multiple
goals box. Point out to students where in the
answers possible)
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
© National Geographic Learning
Who is (famous person)? (Answer: He’s / She’s . . .)
they can review those exercises to improve
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
Where is Paris? (Answer: It’s in France.)
Name countries and nationalities: Warm-Up
Where is Brazil? (Answer: It’s in South America.)
Video, page 16, A–F; Vocabulary, page 18,
Circulate around the room, helping students as
A–D; Listening, page 19, C; Speaking,
necessary. It’s important not to skip this step, as
page 20, A–D; Active English, page 22, A
students may not be able to think of questions
Ask where someone is from: Speaking,
to ask “on the spot” during the game. Also, it’s
page 20, A–D
important that students don’t show anyone else
their questions.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson A | 22a

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 13 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 68 ────────

TEACHING TIP: Looking up words quickly
2B IT’S A BIG CITY
Assign pairs of students two of the target vocabulary
words. Tell each student to look up one word and
VOCABULARY
then teach its meaning to their partner. (Students
can use their native language to explain vocabulary.)
WARM-UP 5–10 min
When everyone has finished, call on individual
Have students look at the photo. Write these
students to tell the entire class the meaning of
sentences on the board and have students
their word. This way, all of the students are actively
complete each one.
involved in teaching each other new words.
Rio is a . . . (city) It’s in . . . (Brazil)
It’s in . . . America (South)
CULTURE TIP: Carnival, Copacabana, and
Sugar Loaf
Draw a sun and moon on the board. Point to the
sun and say, day. Point to the moon and say, night.
Carnival is a big festival held every year in Brazil.
Then point to the photo again and say, At night, it’s
It is influenced by African Brazilian culture. There
a beautiful view. Ask students to tell you places they
is a lot of dancing and a big parade. Copacabana
know that have a beautiful view.
(a beach) and Sugar Loaf (a mountain) are famous
places in Rio.

A Look at the photo and read about the city of Rio.
Is your city the same as Rio? Work with a partner.
B Answer the questions with a partner. 15 min
15 min
Have students read through the questions and
First, say all the adjectives in blue aloud. (Focus
practice saying them. Say, Rio is famous for
only on the words that are part of the “Fun
Carnival, Copacabana Beach, and Sugar Loaf
Facts” article.) Your students should just listen,
Mountain. Ask students to add at least two more
but ask them to raise their hand when they hear
questions to the list. They should use the words
a word that they know or have heard before
in blue from A in their questions. Circulate and
(see Teaching Tip). Next read the adjectives
offer help as necessary as your students write
again and have your students repeat. Can they
their questions. Some possible questions:
determine the number of syllables in each word?
Is your city busy or quiet? Is the nightlife
Have them tell you how many one-syllable words
exciting? Are the mountains big? Are the
there are. (Answer: 5). Continue with two-syllable
beaches popular? Is your city fun to visit?
words (4), three-syllable (5), and four-syllable (1).
For this exercise, ask each student to think of a
Give your students a minute to read the
city other than their own. Have them get together
information silently to themselves. It’s OK if
in pairs and ask their partner questions about
they don’t finish. At the end of the minute, have
his or her city. To make this into a game, have
students listen to the entire passage as you read
students alternate asking questions. They can
it. You can also have them repeat after each
choose any question from their list—they don’t
phrase so that they can hear themselves say the
have to go in order. Students can try to guess
words aloud.
the name of their partner’s city at any time and
the sooner they guess it, the more points they
Explain that Rio’s nickname is “the marvelous
will get. Students guessing correctly after the
city.” Tell students that marvelous is another word
first question will receive 10 points. After the
for wonderful or really good / nice. Does the
second question, a correct guess is worth nine
students’ city have a nickname?
points, then eight, and so on. After finishing,
each student should find a new partner and play
Still in pairs, have students choose two of the
again, keeping track of their point totals as they
blue words. (Their words should be different
continue on. The player at the end of three or
from their partner’s words.) First, they should say
© National Geographic Learningfour rounds with the most points is the winner!
something about Rio using one of the words, and
then ask their partner about his or her city using
the same word. (It’s OK if students are talking
about the same city for this exercise. The point
is to get them using the target vocabulary.) A
student might say something like, The streets in
Rio are busy. Is your city busy? You can model
a few examples for students if necessary. Have
each student ask two questions, using their two
chosen words.

23a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 14 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 69 ────────

2B IT’S A BIG CITY

VOCABULARY

A Look at the photo and read about the city of Rio. Is your city the same as Rio?
Work with a partner.
Rio is an old city.
1. Choose two words in blue.
Is your city old?
Yes, it is.
2. Take turns asking your partner questions.

FUN FACTS ABOUT RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL
Rio is a large and old city.

Its nickname is “the Marvelous City” because the beaches are beautiful,
the nightlife is exciting, and the people are friendly.

Rio is famous for . . .

• Carnival: Every year the streets are crowded and busy with people
from all over Brazil and the world.

• Copacabana: This is a relaxing beach. It’s also a popular place to
play soccer.

• Sugar Loaf: This is a big mountain. It is 396 meters (1,299 feet) tall.
From here, there’s a wonderful view of the city.
Rio is an interesting city and a fun place to visit!

B Answer the questions with a partner.
1. Is your city big or small?    5. What is your city
WORD BANK
2. Is it interesting?    famous for?
Opposites
big, large small
3. Are the people friendly?    6. What is your favorite
place in your city?    old new
4. Are the streets crowded? If yes,
Why?    interesting boring
where and when?

View of Rio de Janeiro from
Sugar Loaf Mountain

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 23

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 15 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 70 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5 min
Have students look at the photo of
the city. Ask individual students to
Table Mountain
tell the class one thing they see: I
see . . . (Possible answers: Table
A GREAT PLACE
Mountain / mountains, Boulders
Beach / a beach, penguins, a
soccer stadium, water). Ask
students questions like, Is it a big
TO VISIT
city? Is it a beautiful city? Is it fun
to visit? They can answer based
on their limited information (from
what they see in the photo).

A In one minute, write down
any famous cities and places
in your country on a piece of
paper. Compare your list with
soccer stadium
a partner’s. Why are the places
famous? 10 min
Tell students they will have
one minute to create a list.
Students can write about
their native country or their
current country of residence
(if different). After writing, ask
Hi Cary,
individual students to mention
Greetings! It’s day six of my vacation. I’m in a big
an item or two from their list.
city of 4.7 million people. It’s very exciting.
Have other students raise their
Right now I’m in a busy cafe on Long Street. There
hands if the same place was
are a lot of restaurants and shops on Long Street. The
mentioned on their list.
streets are very crowded!

There are many interesting things to see and do here.
Have students get together
Penguins at
Boulders Beach is beautiful. It’s famous for penguins.
in pairs. Encourage them to
Boulders Beach
They’re really cute!
recycle the words from the
There’s also Table Mountain. It’s a popular place. The view from there is really wonderful.
Vocabulary page—when they
talk about each place, they can
There are many soccer stadiums here. Do you like soccer? I don’t!
say things like: It’s popular /
I’m having a great time! Please say “hi” to everyone in Sydney for me!
beautiful / exciting / relaxing.
Melissa 17

24 | UNIT 2
B Read the email. Where is
Melissa? In which city and
country? Follow the steps
below to guess. 15–20 min
Give students one to two
Students should make an
Point to the reading passage
minutes to skim the reading.
educated guess and then
and say, This is an email.
(It’s OK if they don’t finish.) Some
compare notes with a partner.
Pointing to the names in the
key words students might circle:
If pairs are stuck, give them
© National Geographic Learning
email, say This email is from
big city, 4.7 million people,
hints. Point to the penguins
Melissa to her friend, Cary.
Boulders Beach, penguins,
and say, I see some penguins.
Finally, say, Melissa is here
Table Mountain, view, soccer
This city is far north or far
(pointing at the photo). Melissa
stadiums. You may also
south. (That is, it’s nearer to
is in this city. Then say, Where
want to write on the board:
the north or south pole than
is Melissa? Let’s read. In this
4.7 million = 4,700,000
to the equator.) Point to the
exercise, have students skim
soccer stadiums: Soccer is
the email for key words that will
popular here. The World Cup
help them make a guess.
is popular here.

24 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 16 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 71 ────────

CULTURE TIP: Cape Town,
South Africa

Cape Town is the capital of
South Africa. You may have seen
photos of cable cars traveling to
Some people call this city
the Mother City.
the scenic Table Mountain. The
area is famous for its wineries,
penguins, and Robben Island (the
prison where Nelson Mandela was
held). The World Cup was held
there in 2010. Some people say
that with its mountains, beaches,
ocean, forests, and wine region,
Cape Town has it all.

C Read for details. Read
Melissa’s note again. Circle T
for true or F for false. Correct
the false sentences to make
them true. 15 min
Read through the text and
have students follow along,
mouthing the words but
not saying anything aloud.
Next, have students listen
and repeat. Finally, call on
1. Melissa is in Sydney. T F
A In one minute, write down any famous cities
individual students to read a
Melissa is in Cape Town, South Africa.
and places in your country on a piece of
sentence at a time.
paper. Compare your list with a partner’s.
2. She’s on vacation. T F
Why are the places famous?
Explain the task: students will
3. She’s in a big city. T F
not only be circling whether
B Read the email. Where is Melissa? In which
city and country? Follow the steps below to
the sentences are true or false,
4. Long Street is not busy. T F
guess.
Long Street is busy.
but also rewriting the false
1. Circle key words.
5. Penguins are on Table Mountain. T F
sentences to make them true.
Penguins are at Boulders Beach.
2. Write your guess:
Give students time to write
6. Melissa loves soccer. T F
out their answers. Go over the
Melissa doesn’t like soccer.
3. Compare your answer with a partner’s.
answers as a class.
4. Check your answer at the bottom of the
7. Her vacation is fun. T F
next page.
Read for details. Unlike the
previous exercise, students
C Read for details. Read Melissa’s note again.
D What place in this city do you want to visit?
Circle T for true or F for false. Correct the false
will now be reading closely
sentences to make them true.
for detailed information. As
readers, we spend more time
Lesson B | 25
on this kind of exercise, as
we’re trying to understand the
meaning.
EXTRA! Write your own
Greetings! It’s day of my
vacation. I’m in a / an city D What place in this city do you
postcard 15–20 min
of people.    want to visit? 5 min
Pull sentences from the reading
Write your students’ choices on
© National Geographic Learning
and give them to students to fill
There are a lot of things
the board and then vote for the
in with their own ideas. (They can
to do here and it’s famous for
most popular one as a class.
imagine they’re writing their own
.
postcard to a friend.) Students can
Right now, I’m in / at . It’s
share their writing with the class
.
or hand it in to you to be graded.
Some possible sentences:
I’m having a great time! Please
say “hi” to ! See you soon.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson B | 25

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 17 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 72 ────────

Khaju Bridge, Isfahan, Iran

LISTENING

A Look at the photo. Work with a partner. What words describe this place?

B Listen to John talk about the city of Isfahan. What country is it in? Write your answer. 18
Iran

C Listen for details. Listen. Match the places (1–5) to the words on the right (a–h).
Some places have more than one answer. 19

1. Iran
e, h    a. beautiful    e. wonderful
2. the Iranian people
d    b. big    f. old
© National Geographic Learning
3. Khaju Bridge
c, f, g    c. famous    g. relaxing
4. the main square
b    d. friendly    h. interesting
a
5. Isfahan

D Do you want to visit Isfahan? Why or why not? Tell a partner.

Cape Town, South Africa
Exercise B, page 25 answer:

26 | UNIT 2

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 18 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 73 ────────

Make sure students understand this. Also, draw
LISTENING
a square shape on the board and say, This is a
square. Explain that the main square refers to an
WARM-UP 5 min
open space that is in the central area of town.
With books closed, tell students they are going to
(It may be helpful to show a picture.) If you have
learn about a city with a famous bridge. Can they
Spanish speakers in your class, you can say, A
name any famous bridges?
main square is like a plaza.

Before you play the audio, choose two or three
A Look at the photo. Work with a partner. What
adjectives from the list and ask your students to
words describe this place? 5–10 min
guess which item(s) it matches. They can shout
Put students in pairs. Give them a minute to
out their guesses.
come up with at least three words to describe
Play the audio. First, have students listen silently
the bridge in the picture. If it’s helpful, they can
without writing anything. Play the audio again
flip back to the Vocabulary page to review the
and have students write their answers. You may
target vocabulary that they’ve learned for the
want to play it a third time if you think students
lesson. Some words that students might come
need to double-check their work.
up with: beautiful, big, busy, crowded, large, old,
popular, relaxing, wonderful. Point to the people
To go over the answers, first ask the class how
in the photo and ask, Who are the people?
many answers they got for each item. [Answers:
(Possible answer: Friends.)
1. Iran (matched with 2 adjectives); 2. the
Iranian people (matched with 1); 3. Khaju Bridge
(matched with 3); 4. the main square (matched
B Listen to John talk about the city of Isfahan. What
with 1); 5. Isfahan (matched with 1)] Assign
country is it in? Write your answer. 18 5–10 min
individual students to come to the board and
Read the directions together. Say, John is a
write out their answers. You can do the first one
tourist. Make a circular motion as you say, He
together on the board: Iran is wonderful. Make
goes around the world. Explain to your students
sure the student writing a sentence about the
that John writes a travel blog. Play the audio and
Iranian people uses the correct form of be (are,
have students write their answer. (Iran.) What do
not is).
students know about Iran? Where in the world is
it? (See Culture Tip.)
Listen for details. Tell students they are going
to be listening for specific words that are used
Say to your students, Iran is a country. The
to describe the Iranian people and four locations
capital city is Tehran. A person from Iran is an
in Iran. Tell them that they don’t need to worry
Iranian. Iran isn’t in North or South America.
about understanding every single word that they
It’s in the Middle East. (You can show this on a
hear.
map.) The word Iranian comes up in C, so make
certain you introduce it here.
D Do you want to visit Isfahan? Why or why not?
Tell a partner. 5–10 min
CULTURE TIP: Iran and the Middle East
Put students into pairs. They should tell their
Iran is one of 17 countries in the Middle East. It
partner whether they want to visit Isfahan or not.
shares borders with several countries, including
(Since they may not have the words they need
Iraq and Turkey.
to express their reason in English, it’s OK if they
use their native language here.) Come back
together as a class and call on a few students
C Listen for details. Listen. Match the places (1–5)
to tell you their answers and reasons. Optional:
to the words on the right (a–h). Some places
Have students write YES or NO anonymously on
have more than one answer. 19 10–15 min
slips of paper and hand them in. Then ask a few
Before you play the audio, have students read
volunteers to read off some of the answers while
silently through the directions and the items
another student tallies the results on the board.
below. There are eight adjectives on the right
© National Geographic LearningWhat was the final verdict?
but only five items on the left, so some of the
items will match to more than one adjective.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson B | 26a

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 19 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 74 ────────

sentences on the right? It’s OK if students don’t know
GRAMMAR
what to say yet—you’re just testing the waters. Before
you give them “the rules,” you want to give them an
WARM-UP 10 min
opportunity to notice any important features.
Ask your students about the meaning of the
sentences in the grammar chart. For example:

Copacabana is relaxing. (Ask: Where is
B Take turns describing your city with a partner.
Copacabana? Answer: In Rio.)
Use adjectives with be. 10 min
Students now have an opportunity to talk
The penguins are cute. (Ask: Where are the
about their own city, using adjectives. First
penguins? Answer: At Boulders Beach.)
have students work individually, writing four
Note: Just touch on there is / there are lightly here,
sentences that follow the patterns in the charts.
as students will learn about it in detail in Unit 10.
For example, if I were writing about New York,
I might write: New York City is exciting. It is
Write the sentences from the chart on the board
an exciting place. The people are busy. There
and draw an arrow from the adjective in each one
are tall buildings. Circulate around the room,
to the noun. Point and say, “Relaxing” tells us about
helping students with vocabulary and answering
“Copacabana.” “Relaxing” describes Copacabana.
any questions they have. Students should then
join a partner and share their sentences. Ask
A Read the Unit 2, Lesson B Grammar Reference
for volunteers to share one of their partner’s
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
sentences with the class.
the exercises below. 10–15 min
If you don’t have time for students to write out four
If you have assigned the Grammar Reference as
sentences, just assign each student one sentence
homework, go over students’ work in class now.
to write and then put them in groups of four so
Do a quick review of A in the appendix (where
that they can share their sentences that way.
students are circling adjectives and underlining
nouns) as this will be a good lead in to learning
about adjectives. Were students able to identify
C Look at the sentences in the grammar chart
the nouns and adjectives in each sentence? You
above. Work with a partner. Rewrite each one as
may want to leave the review of B in the appendix
a question. 10 min
until after the main grammar presentation here.
Questions that require you to give an answer
Students will then have an opportunity to go back
of yes or no are called Yes / No questions.
and revise their answers if need be.
Students learned how to form them with the
verb be in Lesson 1B. In this exercise, they’ll get
If you didn’t assign the Grammar Reference as
some more practice. First, read through the four
homework, proceed directly to the Warm-Up.
statements while your students repeat. Next,
This lesson focuses on adjectives. Go over
write Copacabana is relaxing. on the board. Ask
the information in the charts. Points to pay
students to turn it into a question. Remind them
attention to:
that the verb be comes at the beginning in a
question. Give students some time to write their
• There are two different patterns presented.
answers. Circulate through the class and assist
• Use is with singular nouns (Copacabana) and
as necessary.
are with plural nouns (penguins).
• For the pattern on the right (adjective coming
D Read the sentences. In your notebook, rewrite
before a noun), you will need to quickly point out
each one as a question. 10 min
the insertion of a / an before the adjective: It is a
First, read through the six statements while your
popular place. (Students will learn about a / an
students repeat. Then have your students rewrite
in Lesson 3A.)
these statements as questions.
LANGUAGE TIP: Adjectives
© National Geographic Learning
E Think of a place. Take turns guessing your
Adjectives describe nouns. In this lesson, you will
partner’s place. Ask questions like the ones in D.
be presenting two different sentence patterns that
10 min
use adjectives: 1) be + adjective and 2) adjective +
noun. Adjectives add important information to the
For this exercise, each student will think of a
sentence.
place and not tell their partner. Have students
then take turns asking their partner questions
about their city. They can use the questions they
TEACHING TIP: Guided Discovery
wrote in D, or they can change them as needed.
As a first step, ask your students what they notice
Help students with vocabulary as needed.
about the sentences in the chart (if anything). Ask,
How are the sentences on the left different from the

27a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 20 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 75 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 2, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
exercises. Then do the exercises below.

ADJECTIVES WITH BE

be Adjective be Adjective Noun
Copacabana is relaxing. It is a popular place.
The penguins are cute. There are big stadiums.

B Take turns describing your city with a partner. Use adjectives with be.

C Look at the sentences in the grammar chart above. Work with a partner. Rewrite
Is Copacabana relaxing?
each one as a question.
Is it a popular place?
Copacabana is beautiful. ➔ Is Copacabana beautiful?
Are the penguins cute?
Are there big stadiums?
D Read the sentences. In your notebook, rewrite each one as a question.
1. The food is good.    4. The nightlife is exciting.
Is the food good? Is the nightlife exciting?
2. It’s a fun place.    5. The people are friendly.
Is it a fun place? Are the people friendly?
3. The streets are crowded.    6. It’s famous for music.
Are the streets crowded? Is it famous for music?

E Think of a place. Take turns guessing your partner’s place. Ask questions like the
ones in D.

Are the streets    Is it a relaxing
crowded?    place?
Yes, it is.
No, they aren’t.

© National Geographic Learning

This popular tea
house in Isfahan has
interesting decorations.

Lesson B | 27

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 21 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 76 ────────

In the botanical garden in
Montreal, Canada, there
are interesting plants and
beautiful buildings.

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Look at the photo. Is this a good place to visit on vacation?

B Where is a good place for vacation? Write your ideas in the chart under Place 1 or in your
notebook.

Place 1 (my idea) Place 2 Place 3 Place 4
Place
Where is it?
How is it there?

C Interview three classmates. Write their ideas in the chart under Places 2, 3, and 4.

D Choose one place for a vacation. Explain your choice to a partner.

E WRITING In your notebook, write about your choice. Use the information from the chart in B.

My choice is Montreal, Canada. It’s an old and beautiful city. French is the main language
in Montreal. Montreal is busy with students from around the world. The area is famous for
maple syrup. The French food is good there, too!
© National Geographic Learning
F Exchange papers with a partner. What’s your partner’s choice? Is it an interesting place?

2B GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Talk about a city
2. Mostly, yes.
Describe a good vacation place
3. Not yet.

28 | UNIT 2

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 22 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 77 ────────

each other. They should tell their partner about
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
their place by saying, My place is (name) and
then wait for the person to ask them about it.
WARM-UP 5 min
Students should make note of their partner’s
With books closed, pre-teach the word vacation to
answers.
your students. Show a photo of a person / people at
work, at school, and on vacation, and tell students
where the people are. For example, She is at work.
D Choose one place for a vacation. Explain your
He is at school. They are on vacation. Underline the
choice to a partner. 5 min
word on so that students notice it.
After students have finished, they should choose
one of the four places in the chart (including their
A Look at the photo. Is this a good place to visit on
own). Put students in pairs and have them tell their
vacation? 5 min
partner about their choice.
Now, with books open, have students take a
moment to study the photo. Have them look
E WRITING In your notebook, write about your
up the word garden in their dictionaries. Point
choice. Use the information from the chart in B.
to different things in the photo as you say the
20–30 min
words building, tree, and bridge. Ask, Is this a
Have students read the paragraph on Montreal
good place to visit on vacation? Students can
silently. Ask them to scan it and circle the
volunteer adjectives to describe the garden.
adjectives that they learned in this lesson.
(Answers: old, beautiful, busy, famous). Then
B Where is a good place for vacation? Write your
ask them to underline any words that describe
ideas in the chart under Place 1 or in your
nationality or language. (Answer: French).
notebook. 10–15 min
Have students use the paragraph as a model for
You can set the parameters for this exercise. The
their own writing: My choice is . / It’s a / an
vacation place can be anywhere in the students’
(adjective) and (adjective) city. (language) is the
own country or anywhere in the world. Students
main language there. (city name) is (adjective).
don’t have to be experts, but they will need to
It / The area is famous for (fun fact). The (type of
know enough about the place to fill in its location
food or dish) is good there, too! Give students
and describe it in simple terms.
time to find online any information they need.
Model for students how to get started. For your
answer, choose the Alps (mountains) in Europe.
F Exchange papers with a partner. What’s your
If you have a map, show where the Alps are.
partner’s choice? Is it an interesting place?
(The place can be a city or any other kind of
5–10 min
location.) Write the Alps in the chart on the
Have students read their partner’s paragraph
board. Then say, The Alps are in Switzerland
and say one new thing they learned.
and write the country name. (Note: The Alps
stretch across Central Europe. To simplify, we’ve
Diagnostics
chosen one country.) For the last section (How is
Check students’ competencies as follows:
it there? ), you can write two adjectives: beautiful,
not crowded. Say, It’s beautiful there. It’s not
• Can they recognize adjectives?
crowded. Give students time to think and write
• Can they form sentences using the two different
their place for vacation in the chart.
patterns of adjectives (be + adjective and
adjective + noun)?
TEACHING TIP: Model an exercise
• Can they give a basic description of a vacation
Sometimes the best way to teach something is to
spot or a city?
just do an example with students, especially when
there are multiple steps involved. This will clear up
© National Geographic Learning2B
GOALS
a lot of questions and allow students to get visual
understanding immediately.
Review students’ self-assessment in the
goals box. Point out to students where in the
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
C Interview three classmates. Write their ideas in
they can review those exercises to improve
the chart under Places 2, 3, and 4. 10–15 min
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
Students are going to interview three different
Talk about a city: Vocabulary, page 22, A–B;
classmates and find out their vacation spots.
Reading, page 25, A and D; Listening,
Before that, practice saying, Where is it ? and
page 26, D; Grammar, page 24, B–E
How is it there? For the second question, make
Describe a good vacation place:
sure students understand the meaning. Have
Active English, page 28, A–F
students circulate around the class, interviewing

Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson B | 28a

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 23 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 78 ────────

Have students read through the different country
GLOBAL VOICES
names. Play the video and have students circle
the countries they hear. Check their answers as
WARM-UP 5–10 min
a class.
Pre-teach these words: earth, volcano, modern,
incredible. Draw the sun, followed by two circles
(representing the two planets closest to the sun),
C Write the nationality next to the country name
and a third circle (representing our planet). Say,
in B. (Iceland ➔ Icelandic). Then complete the
This is our world. This is Earth. The video is about
sentence. 5–10 min
Andrés Ruzo. He studies the Earth. Point to the
Now have students look back at all of the country
volcano in the photo. Say, He studies volcanoes.
names in B and write nationality words next
Next, write these adjectives on the board to show
to them. (They can see an example of the -ic
that they are opposites: an old city a modern
ending here with Icelandic.) Students can work
city. Finally tell your students that incredible means
in pairs if they are having trouble with some
“very good” (as in, “Wow!”). Practice saying these
of the items. Then ask them to complete the
words with your students so that they’ll be able to
sentence. Say, Andrés is a Peruvian American
recognize them when they hear them.
and a Nicaraguan American!

CULTURE TIP: Andrés Ruzo
D Watch the video. Match the words and make
Andrés Ruzo is a National Geographic Explorer.
sentences. 10 min
He’s a scientist, educator, author, and TED Talks
Have students read through the items in D.
speaker. He grew up between Peru, Nicaragua, and
Ask them to circle the city names. (There are
the United States, and has worked on projects in all
four: Lima, Cusco, Chinandega, and Miami.)
of those countries. He’s a geoscientist specializing
Ask, Where is Lima? (Answer: In Peru.) Do the
in volcanology and geothermal studies. One of his
same for the other cities. (Answers: Cusco /
major projects was the study of the Boiling River in
Peru; Chinandega / Nicaragua; Miami / the
the Amazon.
United States) Say, Andrés Ruzo is Peruvian,
Nicaraguan, and American. These cities are in
TEACHING TIP: Pre-teach, but don’t overload
Peru, Nicaragua, and the United States. Ask
students to underline any words they don’t know
There are other words in the video your students
(such as farming).
probably won’t know: scientist, farming, history,
communicate, etc. That’s OK. You want to pre-teach
enough vocabulary so that students can get into
E Now make sentences about your city. Tell a
the video and grasp the basic meaning, while being
partner. 5 min
mindful of not overloading them. The words you
Students should now think of two adjectives to
choose to pre-teach may not always be commonly
describe their city and tell a partner what it’s
used in conversation, but they are necessary for
famous for.
students to understand the gist.

EXTRA! Oral presentation / Brief family
A Use your dictionary. Look up the words in the box.
history 20–30 min
Then complete the sentences. Tell your partner.
Pull these sentences out of the script and give them
5–10 min
to your students.
Have student look up the words in the Word
Bank and complete items 1–3. If you have
My name is Andrés Ruzo.
monolingual students in their home country,
I’m Peruvian, Nicaraguan, and American.
students can go into greater depth about where
their parents’ families are from (for example,
My father’s family is from Lima. It’s the capital of
they can mention a neighboring town or even
Peru. It’s big and busy.
a neighborhood in their own city). If they know
My mother’s family is from Chinandega. It’s famous
© National Geographic Learning
their family history, they can even talk about the
for volcanoes.
country their family originates from. Students
should share their answers with a partner.
Using the sentences as a model, have your students
write a brief “family history.” They don’t have to
follow the model exactly—the important thing is that
B Watch the video about Andrés Ruzo. Circle the
students say a little bit about themselves and their
country names that you hear. 5–10 min
parents (and where they’re from). Students can then
With books closed, play the video so students
give an oral presentation to the class.
can watch it once without having to do anything.
This will allow them to get accustomed to
Andrés’ way of speaking.

29a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 24 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 79 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A Use your dictionary. Look up the words in the box. Then complete the sentences. Tell your partner.
1. I’m from .
WORD BANK
2. My father’s family is from .
family
father
3. My mother’s family is from .
mother

B Watch the video about Andrés Ruzo. Circle the country names that you hear.
Australian Nicaraguan
Australia    Nicaragua
Chinese Peruvian
China    Peru
Colombian Spanish
Colombia    Spain
Icelandic    American
Iceland    United States

C Write the nationality next to the country name in B. (Iceland → Icelandic). Then complete the
sentence.
Peruvian American
Andrés Ruzo is , Nicaraguan, and .

D Watch the video. Match the words and make sentences.
WORD BANK
a. old.
c, e
1. Lima is
farming
volcano
a
b. many Spanish speakers.
2. Cusco is
c. big.
3. Chinandega is famous for
d, f
d. volcanoes.
b
4. Miami has
e. busy.
f. farming.

E Now make sentences about your city. Tell a partner.
1. My city is and .
2. It’s famous for .

Andrés Ruzo looking at the San Cristóbal
volcano in Chinandega, Nicaragua

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 29

WLTB_INT_U02_ptg01.indd 25 22/05/21 6:01 PM

──────── Page 80 ────────

UNIT 3

3
ABOUT THE PHOTO
This man is sitting in front of his
classic car in Trinidad, Cuba.
You can still see many classic
American cars (around 60,000)
on the streets of Cuba. Some
POSSESSIONSLOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
QUESTIONS.
people say Cuba is “a living
1. What is the man’s favorite thing?
museum for classic cars.” Owners
2. Is it old or new?
are very proud of their cars and
it’s not uncommon for one to be
WARM-UP VIDEO
kept in the family for generations.

A Watch the first 10 seconds of the video.
Complete the question.
INTRODUCE THE THEME
always carry
What do you with you?
In Unit 3, students will be taking a
hard look at personal possessions
B Answer the question in A. (Use your dictionary
and learn how to talk about one
to help you.) Tell a partner one thing.
thing (the singular form) as well
as more than one thing (the
C Read the list. Look up any words you don’t
know in your dictionary.
plural form). This can pose both
a book
✓
grammatical and orthographical
(spelling) issues. In this unit, we
a camera
✓
start to unpack some of these
a phone
✓
issues.
a soccer ball

a wallet
✓
In Lesson A, students will learn
keys
✓
the names of some everyday
objects and then listen to a
D Watch the first minute of the video. Check (✓)
discussion of which ones make
the things in C you see.
the best gifts. They will learn
E Watch the video. What do people carry? Name
informal and formal ways to
one more thing.
say thanks (and reply to it). The
grammar focus is on singular
F Look at the list in C. What do you carry? Circle
and plural count nouns as well
your answers. Tell a partner.
as the spelling rules for forming
plural nouns. Finally, students
will practice gift-giving with their
classmates and choose a
favorite gift.

In Lesson B, students will learn
more adjectives (opposites).
This group of opposites is used
when we talk about objects and
how we organize them. Students
Look at the photo. Answer the
WARM-UP 5–10 min
then read a personal profile of
questions. 5–10 min
Point to, or hold up, different
internationally-known organizing
objects in your classroom (pen,
Point to the photo and say, What
expert, Marie Kondo. Next,
pencil, book, table, door, etc.)
do you see? (Answer: A man and
they will listen to a conversation
and ask, What’s this? Students
his car.) Write the following words
© National Geographic Learning
about a person who is sorting
will know some of the words
on the board: old young and
old photographs. The grammar
(especially cognates). If they
old new to show that these
focus is on identifying people and
don’t know the word, simply say
words are opposites. Ask, Is the
objects with this / that / these /
it, have them repeat after you,
man old or young? Is the car old
those. The lesson wraps up
and move on.
or new? (The answer is old in both
with students getting advice on
cases.) Point and say, This car is
whether to keep, give away, or
old. Ask, Do you like old things?
throw away an object they own.
and ask for examples. (Possible
answers: old records, comic
books, vintage jeans.)

30 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 3

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 2 25/05/21 1:05 PM

──────── Page 81 ────────

WARM-UP VIDEO
About the Video
A man sits in front of
In this video, people talk about
his car in Trinidad, Cuba.

the objects they carry every day.
Some of the speakers talk quickly
and there will be vocabulary
your students won’t understand.
Remind them to just focus on the
task at hand.

A Watch the first 10 seconds
of the video. Complete the
question. 5 min
The question in the video is
What do you always carry with
you? Have students complete
the question and look up the
word always in their dictionary.

B Answer the question in A. (Use
your dictionary to help you.)
Tell a partner one thing.
5–10 min

Put students in pairs. Have
them answer the question in A
and tell a partner. Circulate to
help students with vocabulary
as necessary. Ask volunteers to
share answers with the class.

C Read the list. Look up any
words you don’t know in your
dictionary. 5 min
Read through the list while
your students listen. Then have
them listen and repeat. Give
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
them some time to look up any
/ Identify everyday objects    / Describe objects that are important to you
words they don’t know.
/ Give and reply to thanks    / Talk about things that are near and not near

D Watch the first minute of the
video. Check (✓) the things in
F Look at the list in C. What do
EXTRA! Guessing game
C you see. 5–10 min
10–15 min
you carry? Circle your answers.
Have students watch and
Tell a partner. 10 min
Have four to six students choose
check off their answers. Go
one item that they carry every
Students should circle the
over the answers as a class.
day. Collect the items and place
items in C. They can also add
© National Geographic Learning
them on a desk. Then have them
one item of their own. Ask
E Watch the video. What do
come to the front of the room.
pairs to share what they carry.
people carry? Name one more
Have the other students guess
thing. 5–10 min
which item belongs to which
student.
Here are some other items
that appear in the video
that students may see. Help
students with the words if they
don’t know them in English:
an apple, a passport, a bag, a
ring, a photo, a Thank You card.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 3 | 31

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 3 25/05/21 1:05 PM

──────── Page 82 ────────

3A GIFTS

VOCABULARY

A Look at the photo and caption below. Answer the question with a partner.

B Read the words. Then listen and repeat. 20
1. a backpack
2. a gift card
3. headphones
wallet
4. movie tickets
5. a laptop
backpack
6. sunglasses
7. a wallet
8. a watch

headphones    gift card
C Match four of the words in B with the items on the right.

D Look at the gifts in B. Choose one. Ask your partner questions about their gift.

What’s this?
Is it your favorite?
It’s a watch.
No, it isn’t.

E Answer the questions with a partner.
1. What items in B do you have?
2. What is the best gift for a student?

© National Geographic Learning

A watch is a popular
graduation gift. What are
other popular gifts?

32 | UNIT 3

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 4 25/05/21 1:05 PM

──────── Page 83 ────────

C Match four of the words in B with the items on the
3A GIFTS
right. 5 min
Point to the four photos on the page (wallet,
VOCABULARY
backpack, headphones, and gift card) and have
students name each object. Optional: Show
WARM-UP 5–10 min
pictures of the other items on the list in B (movie
With books closed, give students a light “memory
tickets, laptop, sunglasses).
test.” How many words do they remember from the
unit opener video? How many other words for things
LANGUAGE TIP: Nouns with no singular form
(nouns) do they know? Can they spell them? Have
multiple students say words and then come to the
A number of common nouns in English have only
board and spell them.
a plural form. For example, sunglasses, scissors,
pants. You can make them singular by adding a
pair of.
TEACHING TIP: Pair work helper

It can be stressful for students to be asked to do
EXTRA! Drawing race 10 min
something in front of the class. To combat this, you
can pair each student with a “helper” to assist them
Divide your class into teams of six to eight
in an exercise. In this case, a second student could
students. Give the first person on each team a
accompany their classmate to the board and help
word, the second person a different word, and
with the spelling.
so on. (Students shouldn’t share their words with
other team members.) To start the game, have the
first student run to the board. They should draw a
A Look at the photo and caption below. Answer the
picture of their word (they aren’t allowed to speak)
question with a partner. 5–10 min
while their team members try to guess what it is.
With books closed, show your students a picture
Once they get the answer, the first student should
of a graduation or have them look up the word
return to their seat and the second student should
in their dictionaries. To teach the word gift, you
rush to the board to draw their word. Continue in
can mime handing a student an object and say,
this fashion until one team finishes first!
I’m giving you a pen. This pen is a gift. Have
students open their books, look at the photo, and
read the caption. They should think of an answer
D Look at the gifts in B. Choose one. Ask your
and write it down. (You can help with spelling.)
partner questions about their gift. 5–10 min
Put students into pairs and have them compare
Put students into pairs. Have each person
their answers. You can teach them how to say,
choose a gift on the list without telling their
I think ___ is a good gift / are good gifts.
partner. They should then take turns asking
questions about their gifts. This will give them a
chance to recycle vocabulary from Lesson 2A
B Read the words. Then listen and repeat.
(adjectives). Model the questions, Is it old / new /
20 5 min
beautiful / popular / fun? The second student
Read through the words in the list while your
should answer yes or no. When the first student
students listen. Then play the audio and have
is ready to guess, they should point to the item
them listen and repeat.
on the list and say, Is it your favorite? If time
allows, have students change partners and try it
TEACHING TIP: Noticing (previewing grammar)
again.
“Noticing,” in language learning, refers to paying
attention to the form, meaning, or use of language.
E Answer the questions with a partner. 10 min
It’s an important part of learning a new language.
To teach the verb have, pick up a nearby object
Noticing tasks can be as simple or complex as
(a pencil, for example) and hold it in your hand.
you like. In this case, you could ask students to
© National Geographic Learning
Say, This is my pencil. I have it. (Students start
look at the first three items in the list (a backpack,
learning verbs other than be in Unit 4.) Have
a gift card, headphones). What do they notice
students discuss the two questions in pairs. For
about them? Ask, What do you see? Are they
the second question, they can refer to the list of
different? (Possible answers: the first two are
items in B or come up with their own ideas. You
preceded by a, the third one ends in s and doesn’t
can teach them how to say, I think is the
use a beforehand, the second one is split into two
best. Can both students agree on the best gift?
words.)

Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson A | 32a

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 5 25/05/21 1:05 PM

──────── Page 84 ────────

D Look at the words in B. What do you think? What
LISTENING
is a good second choice for Sue’s gift? 10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Elicit from students what they know about Sue.
Write the sentences on the board.
Introduce the words in the Word Bank. Point to
the picture and say, It’s his birthday. Ask students,
Sue plays soccer. / She likes sports.
What’s an expensive birthday gift? Have them give
Her favorite music is hip-hop. / She likes music.
you some examples from the words they’ve just
Put students into pairs. Ask each pair to come up
learned or they can think of their own ideas.
with a second option (other than headphones)
for her graduation gift. Circulate and help with
vocabulary as necessary.
A Tak is buying a gift for Sue. Listen and circle the
correct answers. 21 10 min
Have students read the sentences. Ask them
EXTRA! A gift for a friend 15 min
to look up the word buy in their dictionaries. In
Have each student think of a friend or family
order to introduce some new vocabulary, ask,
member. They need to get some ideas for a gift for
Who is a famous baseball / soccer player? Who
that person. (It could be a birthday or a graduation
is a famous hip-hop / pop singer? Tell students
gift.) Ask them to write some sentences about the
that the answers are fairly close together in the
person and what they like. After that, put students
audio, so they’ll need to listen closely. Play the
into pairs. They should take turns describing their
audio once for students to circle their answers
gift recipient. For example, My friend Jun reads
and then again for them to check them. Go over
Shonen Jump. He likes manga (comic) books. His
the answers as a class.
favorite group is BlackPink. He likes K-pop. Their
partner can then suggest a gift idea for the person.
Ask some students to share the gift ideas with the
B Listen and sequence. Listen. Number the three
class.
items (1, 2, 3) as you hear them. (You will not
number all of the items.) 22 5–10 min
This listening is a little bit different: Students will
EXPANSION: Good gift ideas 15–20 min
be sequencing the items in the order that they
In the listening, we learned that Sue likes soccer
hear them. They also won’t be using all of the
and hip-hop. Tell students they are going to choose
items in the exercise.
another gift for Sue from each category from this list
Listen and sequence. Listening and sequencing
of real-life gift ideas.
helps students to organize the content and
Soccer gifts: a book about soccer, soccer ball “bath
understand the flow of the conversation. In this
bombs,” soccer socks, a soccer backpack (for
case, students need to do this to prepare for the
carrying everything), a soccer ball lamp
following exercise. Have students say the six
different items aloud. Then play the audio and
Hip-hop gifts: a book about hip-hop, an old (classic)
have them number the items in the order that
hip-hop record, Bluetooth speakers, a hip-hop ring
they hear them. Play the audio a second time, if
(in the shape of headphones)
necessary, and then check answers.
Students should get into pairs and discuss the
positive and negative aspects of the different gifts.
C Listen for details. Follow the steps. 22 10 min
This will allow them to recycle language that they’ve
Before students do the next listening, they need
learned: nice, interesting, fun, not expensive, easy
to transfer their answers from B into the chart.
to buy (find), popular (positive aspects); boring,
(For example, since gift card was the first item
expensive, hard to buy (negative aspects). Come
they heard about in B, they should write it in the
together as a class and tally votes. What were the
first place in the chart in C.) Students are now
most popular gifts?
going to listen for details to find out exactly what
is said about each item.
© National Geographic Learning
Listen for details. Remind students that they
do not need to hear and understand every word
in order to get the specifics. Before they listen,
have them think of key words they might hear.
Play the audio and have students circle their
answers. Go over the answers as a class.

33a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 6 25/05/21 1:05 PM

──────── Page 85 ────────

Liu Xuchang celebrates his
birthday with his family in
Shanghai, China.

LISTENING

A Tak is buying a gift for Sue. Listen and circle the correct answers. 21
WORD BANK
Your birthday is the day
1. Sue is Tak’s classmate / friend.
you are born.
2. Tak is buying her a graduation / birthday gift.
an expensive gift = $$$$
3. Sue likes baseball / soccer.
4. She likes hip-hop / pop music.

B Listen. Number the three items (1, 2, 3) as you hear them. (You will not number
all of the items.) 22
1
sunglasses a gift card a watch
3 2
headphones movie tickets a backpack

C Listen for details. Follow the steps. 22
1. Write items 1, 2, and 3 from B in the chart below.

2. Listen again. What do Tak and Martina say about each gift? Circle your answers.

1. boring / fun / popular
© National Geographic Learninga gift card
2. beautiful / expensive / nice
a backpack
3. not expensive / not boring / favorite
headphones

D Look at the words in B. What do you think? What is a good second choice for
Sue’s gift?

Lesson A | 33

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 7 25/05/21 1:05 PM

──────── Page 86 ────────

SPEAKING
SPEAKING

A Listen to the conversation. Then practice it
with two partners. 23
Common lost items: 1. TV remote, 2. phone,
3. keys, 4. glasses, 5. wallet / purse
Sun: Oh, no . . .

Paula: What’s wrong, Sun?

Sun: My wallet. Where’s my wallet?

Paula: Is it in your pocket?

Sun: Um . . . no.

Paula: Is it in your backpack?

Sun: No, it’s not. I can’t find it anywhere!

Man: Hmm . . . what’s this? Excuse me, miss?

Sun: Yes?

Man: Is this your wallet?

Sun: Yes, it is! Thank you very much!

Man: You’re welcome.

B Practice the conversation again. Take a different role. Replace the underlined word
in A to ask about the items below.

key credit card charger

C Imagine you lost one of these important
SPEAKING STRATEGY 24
items. Create a short conversation. Use the
Giving and Replying to Thanks
Speaking Strategy to thank and reply to each
Saying Thank you Replies
other formally.
Thank you very much. You’re welcome.
formal
movie tickets
Thank you. My pleasure.
Thanks a lot. Sure, no problem.
notebook
Thanks. informal You bet.
phone
sunglasses
© National Geographic Learning
D Choose a different item in C. Repeat your
conversation. This time, thank and reply to each
other informally.

34 | UNIT 3

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 8 25/05/21 1:05 PM

──────── Page 87 ────────

Speaking Strategy to some degree. The important
SPEAKING
thing to keep in mind is not to be too formal (by
saying Thank you very much) in a more casual
WARM-UP 10 min
setting.
With books closed, show students a photo of a
lost-and-found office (that you might find in a train
station, for example) or translate lost and found for
B Practice the conversation again. Take a different
them. Ask, What’s in a lost and found? Students can
role. Replace the underlined word in A to ask
call out their answers. If they don’t know how to say
about the items below. 10–15 min
an object in English, have them say it in their native
Put students into new groups of three. Have
language while you write it on the board in English.
them practice the conversation again by
Compile a list of commonly lost items on the board.
substituting different items (key, credit card,
Have students open their books. Say, Look at the
charger) in place of the word wallet. Have them
photo. What’s lost? (Answer: a wallet). Next, have
say the conversation three times with each
students read the list of commonly lost (misplaced)
student getting a chance to play all of the roles.
items in the caption. Explain vocabulary as needed.
What do they think about the list? Ask, How about
C Imagine you lost one of these important items.
you? Which of the items do you lose most often?
Create a short conversation. Use the Speaking
Have students rank the five items in the caption in
Strategy to thank and reply to each other formally.
the order they most often lose or misplace them.
15–20 min
Have some students share their lists with the class.
Students are now going to choose an item
and make their own conversation. Have
A Listen to the conversation. Then practice it with
students practice their conversations. Then
two partners. 23 10–15 min
ask some groups to perform for the class. You
could also ask some students to perform their
Have students read through the conversation
conversations with their books closed.
silently and circle any words they don’t know.
Explain to students that Sun says, “Oh, no”
because she’s worried or upset about
TEACHING TIP: Closed-book recitation
something. Mime the meaning for students. The
It is important to get students’ noses out of their
question What’s wrong? is used to ask someone
books and encourage them to apply what they’ve
what the problem is. Mime the meaning of the
learned. At the same time, this can be stressful.
question for students. For the word pocket, you
If you do a closed-book exercise, it’s important to
can show students by pointing to it. Say and
give students plenty of practice beforehand and not
mime the sentence, I can’t find it anywhere!
give them a huge amount of material to remember.
Play the audio once and have students listen.
In this case, students have had a lot of practice
Then play it again while they listen and repeat.
already. Also, because there are three people in
Do this a couple of times. Finally, have students
the conversation, there is a manageable amount of
practice the conversation with two partners.
material for each student to learn. (Note: If you do
Circulate around the classroom, helping with
this closed-book exercise, it’s recommended that
pronunciation as necessary.
students choose one of the two nouns that are in
the singular form: notebook or phone. See notes in
LANGUAGE TIP: Excuse me, sir / ma’am / miss
D for working with plural nouns in the conversation.)
In English, we say, Excuse me as a polite way to
get someone’s attention. If you want to refer to a
D Choose a different item in C. Repeat your
specific person, you can also say, Excuse me,
conversation. This time, thank and reply to each
sir for adult men or Excuse me, ma’am for adult
other informally. 10 min
women. For a younger woman or girl, you would
Students can do this last exercise with their
use miss instead of ma’am.
books open. If you are using the plural nouns
© National Geographic Learning
(movie tickets and sunglasses), you will need
SPEAKING STRATEGY 24 5 min
to help your students change some of the
Go over the expressions in the Speaking Strategy
sentences in the conversation: Where’s my
box. Have students practice saying the different
wallet? ➔ Where are my sunglasses? / Is it in
ways to express thanks and reply in informal and
your pocket? ➔ Are they in your pocket? / Is
more formal ways.
this your wallet? ➔ Are these your sunglasses?
You can also stick to the singular form only if
you prefer.
LANGUAGE TIP: Expressing thanks

Students shouldn’t overthink this. It’s OK to mix and
match the expressions on the left and right in the

Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson A | 34a

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 9 25/05/21 1:05 PM

──────── Page 88 ────────

and have students write the plural forms. It
GRAMMAR
doesn’t matter if students know the words or not;
you’re just seeing if they can apply the correct
WARM-UP 5 min
spelling rule (answers given in parentheses):
In this lesson, students are learning about nouns.
day (days), hero (heroes), lady (ladies), lunch
Coupled with adjectives (learned previously), they
(lunches), piano (pianos), wife (wives). Clarify
are some of the building blocks of sentences and
meaning for students where necessary.
will allow students to say so much more. Note that
this is a gradual introduction to the world of nouns:
learning to place a / an before singular forms,
TEACHING TIP: Peer correction
nothing before plural forms, and how to spell plural
For A, it can be helpful to have students exchange
forms. (While this can be a bit of headache for the
books and have a partner check their spelling.
language learner, if they learn the rules now it will
Students can make suggested corrections;
help them in the long run.) This lesson does not
ultimately, you’ll have the final say. Students can
introduce the use of the before nouns (plural and
make any changes to their work before you review it.
singular), nor the class of noncount nouns (see
Unit 11). With books closed, show students the
photo and read the caption aloud. Say, We say “one
B PRONUNCIATION: Plural endings Listen and
dictionary” but “two dictionaries.” How do you spell
repeat. Then practice saying the singular and
“dictionaries”? Do this with several other words as
plural forms of the nouns. 25 10–15 min
well. Write answers on the board.
There are three different ways to pronounce
plural endings: /iz/, /s/, or /z/. The first one
(/iz/) is pronounced as a separate syllable. Go
A Read the Unit 3, Lesson A Grammar Reference
through the words in the chart and have your
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
students repeat. Next, with books closed, have
the exercises below. 15–20 min
each student write the three different sounds
If you have assigned the Grammar Reference as
on three separate pieces of paper. As you
homework, go over students’ work in class now.
read random plural forms from the chart, have
Students wrote the singular and plural forms of
students hold up one of their papers to indicate
12 nouns in A, so you’ll want to check this to see
the correct final sound. You could also do this
if students got the hang of it (see Teaching Tip).
exercise by writing the endings on the board and
A quick way to review B is to have students read
having students tell you to stand in front of the
their answers aloud and have everyone check
correct sound.
their answers together. Next, move into the
lesson.
C Read the rules of the guessing game. Then play
This lesson focuses on count nouns and spelling
the game with a partner. 10–15 min
rules for plural nouns. Go over the information in
Go over the rules of the game. Students will
the charts. Points to pay attention to:
choose words and then draw one or two objects
• Make sure your students know the difference
of that word while their partner guesses the
between singular (only one) and plural (more
object and then spells the word. When students
than one) nouns.
are guessing the singular forms, listen to make
sure they are using a / an before the noun.
• Point out the use of a / an before the singular
nouns (in the box on the right).
EXTRA! Guessing game with unfamiliar
• Explain the difference between vowels (a, e,
words 15 min
i, o, u) and consonants (the other letters). It’s
important to know this so that students can
Choose some fun words in English that your
learn the spelling rules.
students won’t know the meaning of. You might want
to go with a certain theme; for example, insects
• Explain that the rule for regular plurals is
and animals (butterfly, octopus). Put students into
straightforward. The other rules are more
© National Geographic Learning
pairs and tell them they’re going to play a racing
complex.
game. One student will be drawing the word while
• In some cases, such as plural forms for
the other student guesses. Write the first word on
words ending in o, students will simply have
the board. The student who is drawing it has to first
to memorize the spelling on a case-by-case
look it up in their dictionary (quickly!) and then draw
basis.
it. The guessing student then shouts out the answer.
Before going on to the next word, see if your
After you’ve reviewed the material, have students
student can say the word and also spell the plural
close their books and spell the plural words
form (butterflies, octopuses).
you call out. Optional: To give students more
practice, write the following words on the board

35a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 10 25/05/21 1:05 PM

──────── Page 89 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 3, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
exercises. Then do the exercises below.

Singular and
SPELLING RULES FOR FORMING PLURAL NOUNS
Plural Count
Most plural nouns are formed by adding s: camera ➔ cameras pen ➔ pens
Nouns
For nouns ending in a vowel + y, add s: boy ➔ boys
It’s an ID card.
For nouns ending in a consonant + y,
I’m a student.
drop the y and add ies: dictionary ➔ dictionaries
We’re students.
For nouns ending in a vowel + o, add s: radio ➔ radios
For nouns ending in a consonant + o,
add s with some nouns and es with others: photo ➔ photos potato ➔ potatoes
For nouns ending in ch, sh, ss, or x, add es: class ➔ classes
For nouns ending in f / fe, change it to ve + s: knife ➔ knives leaf ➔ leaves

B PRONUNCIATION: Plural endings Listen and repeat. Then practice saying
the singular and plural forms of the nouns. 25

There are three different
class ➔ classes    dish ➔ dishes
ways to pronounce plural
watch ➔ watches    bus ➔ buses
endings.
backpack ➔ backpacks    laptop ➔ laptops

notebook ➔ notebooks    wallet ➔ wallets
camera ➔ cameras    ID card ➔ ID cards

key ➔ keys    umbrella ➔ umbrellas

C Read the rules of the guessing game. Then play the game with a partner.
1. Write the number 1 on five pieces of paper.
2. Write the number 2 on five pieces of paper.
3. Mix up the pieces of paper and place them face down.
I think the answer is
4. Choose a word from the list in B and pick up a piece of paper.
“a camera.” That’s
5. If your paper says 1, draw one item (for example, a watch or an umbrella).
C-A-M-E-R-A.

6. If your paper says 2, draw two items (for example, two keys).
You’re right!
7. Your partner guesses the answer and then spells out the word.

Old copies of an English
dictionary in London, England

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson A | 35

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 11 25/05/21 1:05 PM

──────── Page 90 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Jane is giving Lucas a gift. Practice the conversation with a partner.
Lucas: What’s this . . . a watch? Wow, it’s cool. Thanks, Jane.
I really like it.

Jane: I’m glad you like it, Lucas.

B Practice the conversation again with a different gift idea. Use the language
in the box to talk about the gift.

When people say Thank you for a gift, they also say . . .
I really like it / them.
I like it / them a lot.
Thanks.
It’s
cool / beautiful / great / nice / perfect.
They’re

C Think of a gift. Write the name of the gift on a small piece of paper.
Fold the paper.

D Work with a partner. Follow these gift-giving steps.
1. Exchange your papers.    3. Write the name of the gift in the box.
2. Thank your partner for the gift. Say    4. Do this four more times with new partners.
something about it.

Gifts

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

E Tell a new partner about your gifts. Which is your favorite?
My gifts are a watch, sunglasses, movie tickets . . .
What’s your favorite gift?
© National Geographic Learning
The sunglasses!

3A GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Identify everyday objects
2. Mostly, yes.
Give and reply to thanks
3. Not yet.

36 | UNIT 3

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 12 25/05/21 1:05 PM

──────── Page 91 ────────

of an important exam or the start of a new job.
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
(Note: A housewarming gift is given to celebrate
someone’s moving into a new home.)
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Do a quick review of ways to say thank you. Have
students come to the front of the room and give
D Work with a partner. Follow these gift-giving
or receive a gift. (You can use any object.) Tell
steps. 15 min
each successive student that they can’t repeat an
Explain the exercise by modeling how it will
expression of thanks that has been used by another
work. Have three students come to the front of
student.
the room. While you exchange your gifts with
one student, have the other pair do the same
Mime opening a gift and say, I’m opening a gift.
thing. Then switch partners and repeat. This way
Then mime receiving and opening a gift as you say,
students can see that the exercise is dynamic; no
When I receive a gift, I open it. Ask, Do you do this?
one should be standing around for a prolonged
Take a class vote.
period of time with nothing to do. Make sure
students remember to not only thank their partner
for the gift, but also to say something about it. Tell
CULTURE TIP: Gift giving
them that it’s OK if they receive the same gift from
In English-speaking countries, it’s polite to open a
more than one person. After all, it happens in real
gift and thank the giver in person (as you receive it).
life, doesn’t it? Have students stand and move
It’s different in some other countries—especially in
about the classroom, exchanging gifts.
Asia, where people open a gift later when the giver
is not there.
E Tell a new partner about your gifts. Which is your
favorite? 10 min
A Jane is giving Lucas a gift. Practice the
After everyone has given and received five
conversation with a partner. 5–10 min
gifts, have students take some time to look over
Put students into pairs and have them practice
their notes. They should choose their favorite
the conversation. They should take turns playing
one. They can also choose their second and
the parts of Lucas and Jane. Give them other
third favorite gifts if they have them. Then they
expressions to substitute for I’m glad you like it
should tell their partner about their favorite. Ask
(such as My pleasure or I hope you enjoy it) as
individual students to share with the class.
they practice. You can also teach the gift giver
Diagnostics
(Jane) to start the conversation by saying, This is
for you.
Check students’ competencies as follows:
• Are students giving and replying to thanks
appropriately?
B Practice the conversation again with a different
gift idea. Use the language in the box to talk
• Are they saying something additional about the
about the gift. 5–10 min
gifts they receive?
Introduce the language in the chart. What do
• Are they able to remember and pronounce
students notice about the different sentences
everyday objects correctly?
(e.g., I really like it vs. I really like them)?
• Are they using the correct grammatical forms
(Answer: it (singular) vs. them (plural)). Explain
with singular and plural nouns?
that it’s customary, after thanking the gift giver, to
also say something nice about the gift: They’re
perfect. / It’s my favorite. Have students practice
3A
GOALS
again, this time with a different gift.
Review students’ self-assessment in the
goals box. Point out to students where in the
C Think of a gift. Write the name of the gift on a
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
small piece of paper. Fold the paper. 5 min
© National Geographic Learning
they can review those exercises to improve
Give each student a short time to think of a
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
gift and write the name of it on a slip of paper.
Identify everyday objects: Warm-Up video,
(Encourage students to look back at previous
page 30, B–F; Vocabulary, page 32, B–D;
pages of the unit for gift ideas. They can also
Listening, page 33, B; Grammar, page 35,
use their own idea.) Circulate and help students
A–C
with vocabulary as necessary.
Give and reply to thanks: Speaking,
Optional: If you want to give the exercise a little
page 34, A–D; Active English, page 36,
bit more focus, tell students what the occasion
A–B and D
is. You could use one of these ideas: graduation,
birthday, housewarming, celebrating the passing

Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson A | 36a

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 13 25/05/21 1:05 PM

──────── Page 92 ────────

Explain that the Word Bank is showing
3B IMPORTANT ITEMS
“opposites.” (You can explain this to students
by showing old new on the board.) Have
VOCABULARY
students try to guess where the words fit into the
Word Bank before they check their dictionaries.
WARM-UP 10 min
Use the photo to play a “Where’s Waldo” kind of
LANGUAGE TIP: Prefixes
game. Make sure students know these words before
you begin—some will already be familiar: chair, fan,
Write the word important on the board. Then add
computer, photos, purse, scooter. Choose one of
two letters to form unimportant. Circle un and say,
the words at random and ask, Where’s / Where are
This changes the meaning. Point to the Word Bank
the __? On the count of three, students then have
list that shows these words are opposites.
to open their books, look at the photo of the woman
(At this point, you can also teach students the word
in her room, and find the object. They should raise
inexpensive. Make sure they understand that the
their hand once they’ve located it. Show the answer
prefix is in and not un in this case). Finally, remind
to all students, then have them close their books
students that they learned the words friendly and
and do the next item. (They can keep a finger in
popular in Unit 2. The opposites are unfriendly and
their book to easily come back to this page.)
unpopular. Students should start paying attention
to prefixes in words. Encourage them to start
organizing vocabulary items according to prefixes.
TEACHING TIP: Using the photo on the page

You should always look at any photo on the page
C Complete the sentences in B. 5 min
to see if you can explicitly incorporate it into your
lesson. A photo can be used to recycle previously
Have students complete the sentences in B
learned vocabulary and grammar, to get students
about their own room.
into the upcoming topic, or both. As the saying
goes, “A picture is worth a thousand words.”
D Tell a partner about your room. 5–10 min
Ask students to share their answers with a
A Look at the photo and read the caption. Answer
partner. Next, come together as a class and ask
the question with a partner. 10 min
some students to introduce their partner and his
or her room: This is Pablo. His room is clean. His
Put students into pairs. Have them discuss the
smartwatch is the most expensive thing in his
question. Remind them of the verb have, which
room. (Make sure they change the pronouns as
they have seen before. Students should talk
necessary.)
about what they see first and then compare their
own rooms. Students may say things like:
EXTRA! In other words 10–15 min
This room is small and my room is small.
Read these sentences. Ask your students to use
She has a fan and I have a fan.
their own (different) words to say the same thing
She has a desktop computer. I have a laptop.
in writing. For example, if you say, My room is big,
students could write, My room is large or My room
Keep in mind that students have learned to say I
isn’t small. As you read, pause at the end of each
have but don’t know how to form the negative, so
line to give students time to write their sentences.
it should be avoided. Also, they’ve seen the word
Possible answers are given in parentheses.
and, but not the word but.

My room is small. (My room isn’t big / large.)
B Read the sentences. Look up any words you
It isn’t clean. (It’s messy.)
don’t know. Then, write the words in blue from the
It isn’t easy to find things. (It’s hard to find things.)
sentences in the Word Bank. 10 min
First model the words in blue (both in the
I don’t feel good about it. (I feel bad about it.)
sentences and in the Word Bank). Have
© National Geographic LearningMy guitar is inexpensive. (It’s cheap.)
students sound them out, tap out the syllables,
and repeat after you as you say them. Go
through the sentences and make sure
students understand their meaning. (Note: The
word clean, as in clean one’s room, is used
frequently.)

37a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 14 25/05/21 1:05 PM

──────── Page 93 ────────

3B IMPORTANT ITEMS

VOCABULARY

A Look at the photo and read the caption. Answer the question with a partner.

B Read the sentences. Look up any words you don’t know. Then, write
WORD BANK
the words in blue from the sentences in the Word Bank.
Opposites
1. My room is / isn’t clean.
clean
messy
easy
hard
2. is the most expensive thing in my room.
expensive
cheap
3. is the most important thing in my room.
good
bad
4. It is / isn’t easy to find things in my room.
important
unimportant
5. I feel / don’t feel good about my room.

C Complete the sentences in B.

D Tell a partner about your room.
My room is clean.
Is your room clean? No, it’s not.
It’s messy.

© National Geographic Learning

Is this room the same
as, or different from,
your room?

Lesson B | 37

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 15 25/05/21 1:05 PM

──────── Page 94 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Building Fluency: Timed Reading
(Part 1) To read more fluently
WHO IS MARIE KONDO?
means to not only read faster, but
also to comprehend more. The
Is your room messy? Many people’s rooms are not
way your students build fluency
tidy1. Their rooms are filled with clothes, books,
papers, and more. They feel bad about their rooms.
is through practice. Tell your
They need help.
students you are going to time
them for 60 seconds as they read
Marie Kondo helps them. She’s an expert2. She’s
good at organizing3.
the article. They shouldn’t worry
about understanding every word.
Marie is on TV. Her show is Tidying up with Marie
Marie Kondo
Kondo. It’s a fun show. She’s also a writer. Her book
They should not stop and look up
is very popular. It’s in more than 30 countries. It’s in
any words, but just keep going!
Chinese, Spanish, Korean, French, and many other languages. She’s famous.
At the end of the 60 seconds,
Here are some good tips from Marie Kondo:
have students mark their stopping
point in the text. They’ll check
• In your room, there are different groups of things (clothes, books, papers).
their reading rate again at the end
To tidy up, start with the clothes first and then the books and the papers.
This order is important.
of the lesson.
• Look at your clothes. Don’t keep4 everything. This is hard.
• It’s the same with your books and papers. Throw away the extra things.
A Look at the photos. Then circle
• Do some things make you happy? Keep those things.
the correct answers. 5 min
These are some of the tips from Marie Kondo. There are many more on her TV
show and in her book! 26
Students should read the
sentences and circle their
1A tidy room is not messy.
2Marie Kondo is an expert in tidying. She knows a lot about it.
answers. Students haven’t
3When you organize, you take a messy room and make it tidy.
4Don’t keep everything. Give some things to another person.
explicitly studied the -ing form
yet, so simply teach good /
A Look at the photos. Then circle the correct answers.
bad at + -ing as a fixed
1. The clothes in the drawer are messy / tidy.
expression.
2. Marie Kondo helps people. She’s good / bad at organizing.

B Scan for information. Read
B Scan for information. Read the first two paragraphs. Check your answers in A.
the first two paragraphs. Check
C Read the article about Marie Kondo. What exactly does the article say? Make sentences with
your answers in A. 5–10 min
columns A–D. (Only two of the sentences use column C.)
Have students read the first
Marie Kondo is an expert.
A B C D
Marie Kondo is famous.
two paragraphs. Go over the
Marie Kondo is a writer.
expert.
Her book is popular.
answers as a class.
messy.
Marie Kondo
People’s rooms are messy.
fun.
Her book
The tips are good.
are    a
Her show is fun.
famous.
People’s rooms
Scan for information. When
is    an
good.
The tips
students scan, they look for
popular.
Her show
specific information. Tell
writer.
students to quickly read the
38 | UNIT 3
first two paragraphs and the
caption, stopping only at the
information that is relevant to
the questions.
will use all four columns). Start
finish early can help you prep
to do the first item together.
for the next step if you haven’t
C Read the article about Marie
Point to the words Marie Kondo
done so already.
Kondo. What exactly does the
and as you ask, What’s next?,
© National Geographic Learning
article say? Make sentences
Optional: Take each of the
point to column B (Answer:
with columns A–D. (Only two of
choices in the chart (for
is). Then say, Marie Kondo is
the sentences use column C.)
example, Marie Kondo / Her
a . . . expert? Is that correct?
10–20 min
book / is / expert, etc.) and
(Hopefully, students will say
write each one on a big piece
Explain to students that
no.) Let them finish the item
of paper. Shuffle the papers.
they are going to use the
themselves. Tell them that there
Have individual students pick
information in the chart to
are seven sentences in total—
out papers to make sentences.
make sentences. Most of the
three of them are about Marie
You can also have a group
sentences will use this pattern:
Kondo. Give students time to
of students work together.
A – B – D (only two sentences
read the article. Students who

38 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 16 25/05/21 1:06 PM

──────── Page 95 ────────

Each student should hold up
one paper and then group
members should arrange
themselves into the correct
word order to form a sentence.

D Work with a partner. Follow the
steps. 10 min
In this exercise, students are
going to demonstrate their
understanding of the article
by using the sentences they
constructed in C. Put students
into pairs. Have them look at
the chart in C. Taking turns,
each student should say one
sentence about information
they learned from the article.
They are not allowed to repeat
a sentence that has already
been said and it’s OK if they
also refer to information that
isn’t from C. Students should
keep going until they can’t think
of anything to say. Optionally,
Marie Kondo helps
people to be more tidy.
come together as a class and
see how much your students
can remember. Have students
close their books. Go around
the room and have each
student say one fact from the
D Work with a partner. Follow the steps.
E Read the tips. Correct the errors.
article.
1. There are groups of things, like clothes,
1. Look at the information in C. Don’t look at
There are groups of things,
books, and dishes.
the article.
Building Fluency: Timed Reading
like clothes, books, and papers.
2. Start with the books.
Start with the clothes.
2. What is the article about? Take turns.
(Part 2) 5 min Repeat the
Say one fact from the article.
3. Keep everything.
Don’t keep everything.
exercise you did in the Warm-Up.
Student A: Marie Kondo is an expert.
Have students read for 60 seconds
F Are Marie Kondo’s tips good? Talk about them
Student B: She’s famous.
and mark their stopping point in
with a partner.
Student A: She helps people.
the article. Did their end position
Student B: Her book . . .
change? If you don’t have time
for students to do a second timed
reading in class, assign it as
homework and have them report
Lesson B | 39
back to the class.

E Read the tips. Correct the
errors. 5–10 min
know. Give them the following
EXTRA! Cultural gurus
10 min
sentence stems to get them
Each sentence has an error.
started.
Have students identify the
Some people say that Marie
© National Geographic Learning
mistake and then rewrite each
Kondo is the guru of personal
(name) is a / an ___ guru.
sentence correctly. Go over the
organizing. (Guru is another
He / She is (adjective).
answers as a class.
word for “teacher” or “expert.”)
In pop culture, we see all kinds
He’s / She’s online / on TV / ___.
of famous “gurus”—people
F Are Marie Kondo’s tips good?
His / Her book / TV show / ___ is
who are well known for being
Talk about them with a partner.
(adjective).
knowledgeable in a particular
5 min
area: exercise, culture, nightlife,
I like (name) because he’s / she’s
Have students choose a favorite
tech, etc. Tell students to write or
(adjective).
tip and share it with the class.
speak about a famous “guru” they

Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson B | 39

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 17 25/05/21 1:06 PM

──────── Page 96 ────────

LISTENING

A Listen for the main idea. Read the sentence. Then listen. Circle your
WORD BANK
answer. 27
keep throw away
Anna is throwing away her old books / clothes / photos today.

B Listen. Write the answers for ➊ (Where is Anna?) only. 28
WORD BANK
parents
➊ Where is Anna? ➋ Who is she with?
at her house her friend (Marta)
Photo #1
Photo #2
in London / on the Tower Bridge her parents
Photo #3
at the beach her classmates

C Listen again. Now write answers for ➋ (Who is she with?). 28

D Listen one more time. Circle T for true or F for false. 28
1. Anna is 20 years old now. T F
2. In photo #1, she’s in front of her school. T F
3. She’s on vacation in photo #2. T F
4. She’s at her school in photo #3. T F

E Complete the sentence. Tell a partner.
I keep / throw away old photos.

Tower Bridge, London

© National Geographic Learning

40 | UNIT 3

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 18 25/05/21 1:06 PM

──────── Page 97 ────────

C Listen again. Now write answers for ➋ (Who is
LISTENING
she with?). 28 10 min
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Play the audio again. This time have students
listen for the people in Anna’s photos. Once
Ask students, Do you like organizing? Write these
students have finished writing, have students
four answers on the board: Yes, I do! / It’s OK. / No,
quickly check in with a partner to compare
not really. / No, not at all! Take a class vote with a
notes. When you’re ready to go over the answers
show of hands. For the students who answered yes
to B and C, write these sentences on the board:
or no, ask them why. (Possible answers: It’s fun. /
Anna is at / in / on ___. She’s with ___. Call on
I’m too busy.)
individual students to give their answers.

A Listen for the main idea. Read the sentence.
EXTRA! Show a photo 10 min
Then listen. Circle your answer. 27 5–10 min
Have students bring in a photo of themselves (or
Have students read the sentence. Ask, What
they can pull up one on their phone). There should
does throwing away mean? (See if your students
be at least one other person in the photo. Using the
can guess from context.) Take a piece of paper
patterns they’ve just learned, have each student tell
(or any other nearby object) and mime throwing
their partner about the photo: I’m at / in / on ___. I’m
it away as you say, I’m throwing this away. Play
with ___. Ask for volunteers to tell the class about
the audio and have students listen and circle
their partner’s photo.
their answer. Then go over the answer as a
class. This will give students the main focus of
the listening.
TEACHING TIP: Checking before sharing

Listen for the main idea. The main idea is
Students should never be pressured to volunteer
the most important point. It ties all the content
personal information if they feel uncomfortable
together and once you’ve identified it, everything
doing so. Also, in an exercise where students
that follows should be easier to understand.
may be introducing a partner or sharing their
information, they should always check with the
person first. (They can ask, Is it OK? )
B Listen. Write the answers for ➊ (Where is Anna?)
only. 28 5 min
Before you play the audio, tell students they will
D Listen one more time. Circle T for true or F for
be listening and filling in the first column of the
false. 28 10 min
chart. Play the audio and have students write
For this final listening, play the audio while
their answers. Note: For photo #2, at the Tower
students circle their answers. Go over the answers
Bridge is also an acceptable answer. Don’t go
as a class. For the false statements, see if your
over the answers just yet.
students can change them to make them true.

TEACHING TIP: Splitting up the tasks
Building Fluency: Shadowing 10 min
You are going to play the audio and students are
Sometimes listening exercises can be
going to echo (or “shadow”) what they just heard.
overwhelming for students, especially at the
This isn’t a “listen, stop the audio, and repeat”
beginner level. One way to address this issue is
kind of exercise. With shadowing, students
to play the listening twice, giving students only
repeat what they hear as they hear it—the audio
one piece of information to listen for each time.
doesn’t stop. For students’ first time, hand out
(In the chart, students have to fill in both locations
a copy of the transcript to them. Assign some
and people, but the task is broken down into two
students the role of Anna; the others should play
separate tasks.) You can do this with any listening
Zach. Play the audio and have your students
exercise when you think students need the help.
shadow. (If it gets too loud or chaotic, students
can also shadow by whispering the words.) For
© National Geographic Learning
CULTURE TIP: The Tower Bridge
the second listening, have students put their
transcripts away and try again.
The Tower Bridge is considered one of London’s
defining landmarks. 40,000 people a day cross the
Thames River on this iconic 19th century bridge.
E Complete the sentence. Tell a partner. 5 min
One of its popular features is the high-level walkway
Have students complete the sentence and tell
with a glass floor. It’s a great place for sightseeing
a partner. Which photos (if any) do they keep?
photos.
(Possible answers: vacation photos, photos with
my family, baby photos) Note: Students who
keep photos on their phones may say delete
instead of throw away.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson B | 40a

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 19 25/05/21 1:06 PM

──────── Page 98 ────────

Step 1 Put them into groups of four. Each
GRAMMAR
student should write their name above one of the
columns. (They can use one book and pass it
WARM-UP 5–10 min
around or you can pass out a copy of the chart
Do a quick review of singular and plural nouns.
to students ahead of time.)
Hold up a pen and say, I have (letting your
students finish the sentence). Then hold up two
Step 2 Each group will need two coins to play
pens and say, I have two (students finish it).
the game. Explain that when it’s their turn, each
Say, one pen / two pens. Next point at the pen and
student should flip both coins. They should look
say, This pen is expensive. With two pens: These
at the result, check their textbook, and follow
pens are expensive.
the instructions, which will tell them what kind
of sentence they need to make—with this, that,
Read the sentences in the chart aloud. Then call
these, or those. The student then has a short
on individual students to read each sentence. Put
amount of time to make a sentence using their
students into pairs to discuss these two questions:
word. If the sentence is correct (as judged by
What comes after this / that? (Answer: this / that is
the other three students), they place a check (✓)
followed by is or a singular noun.) What comes after
next to their word. If not, they do nothing and it’s
these / those? (Answer: these / those are followed
the next player’s turn. If possible, students should
by are or a plural noun.)
try not to duplicate previous sentences. Keep
playing until each student has had four turns.
A Read the Unit 3, Lesson B Grammar Reference
Optional game variant: Students win by
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
getting a checkmark next to each of the four
the exercises below. 10–20 min
demonstratives, no matter how long it takes.
If you have assigned the Grammar Reference
This means that if they flip the coins and they’ve
as homework, go over students’ work in class
already made a sentence with that word, they
now. Do a quick review of A. Did students
have to pass.
have any problems using this, that, these, or
Step 3 To prepare for the game, teach your
those? Check that they replied to questions
students some more common words for objects
with the appropriate pronoun: Are these your
in your classroom, like desk, table, door, clock,
sunglasses? Yes, they are. Next, move on to the
window. Students will then be able to use these
lesson.
words in their sentences.
This lesson focuses on demonstratives (this, that,
Step 4 Play the game!
these, and those). Go over the information in the
chart. Points to pay attention to:
EXTRA! What’s this? 10 min
• Demonstratives can be used as pronouns
(This is my ID card.) or as adjectives (That
Bring in some pictures of objects, but don’t let
watch is expensive.).
your students see them. Some of the pictures
should show a single object, while others should
• Use this (singular) and these (plural) for
show two or more of the same object. Take the first
people or things that are near to us.
picture and cover it with a sheet of paper. Hold it
• Also, you can use this and these to introduce
up and then slide the top paper a little bit so that
people.
students can see a little bit of the picture below
• Use that (singular) and those (plural) for
it. Ask, What’s this? and have individual students
people or things that are not near to us.
take turns guessing: It’s . . . If no one gets it at first,
move the top paper again, revealing more of the
picture. Ask again: What’s this? Continue this way
LANGUAGE TIP: Introducing with this
until the picture has been guessed. You can do the
Explain to students that when you are identifying
exercise again with plural objects (What are these?
yourself on the phone, you don’t say, I’m John.
They’re . . .) and also ask for a volunteer to hold the
Say, This is John. Also, when you are introducing
picture at a distance as you ask a question (What’s
two people connected by the word and, use the
© National Geographic Learningthat? or What are those? ).
singular form: This is John and this is Nancy (not
These are John and Nancy).

B Play this game in groups of four. 20 min
Students are going to play a sentence
construction game with demonstratives.

41a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 20 25/05/21 1:06 PM

──────── Page 99 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 3, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

THIS / THAT / THESE / THOSE
Near Not Near
➊ This is my ID card.    ➋ A: Who’s that over there?
Singular    ➊ A: Bill, this is my friend Nadia.    B: That’s Marie Kondo.
B: Hi, Nadia. Nice to meet you.    ➋ That’s an expensive watch!
➌ These headphones are really good.    ➍ A: Are those your photos?
Plural    ➌ A: These are my parents.    B: Yes, they are.
B: It’s nice to meet you, Mr. and Mrs. Kim.
➊ Use this to talk about a person or a thing near to you. Use this is on the phone or to introduce a
person.
➋ Use that to talk about a person or a thing that is not near to you.
➌ Use these to talk about two or more people or things near to you. Use these to introduce two or
more people.
➍ Use those to talk about two or more people or things that are not near to you.

B Play this game in groups of four.
1. Choose a column in the chart. Write your name.
2. Student 1 flips two coins. Make a sentence.

= Make a sentence with the word this.
+

+
= Make a sentence with the word that.

+
= Make a sentence with the word these.

+
= Make a sentence with the word those.

3. If the sentence is correct, put a check (✓) next to your word. If it is incorrect, do nothing.
4. Repeat these steps for Students 2, 3, and 4. Do not repeat another student’s sentence.
5. At the end of the game, count check marks. The player with the most check marks wins!
© National Geographic Learning
Name: Name: Name: Name:

this this this this
that that that that
these these these these
those those those those

Lesson B | 41

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 21 25/05/21 1:06 PM

──────── Page 100 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Think of an old object in your room. Draw a picture of it. Then complete the information.
The object:
1. Is it your favorite? yes no
2. Is it expensive? yes no
3. Is it important to you? yes no
4. Is it easy to buy? yes no

i Using but
B WRITING Use your notes in A. Write about the object.
Use but to join two
opposite ideas.
This shirt is old and cheap. It isn’t my favorite, but it’s important.
This shirt isn’t my
favorite, but it’s
It’s from my soccer club. It isn’t easy to buy.
important.
That room is
crowded but clean.
C Show your picture in A to five classmates. Tell them about your object.
1. Ask for their advice: keep it, throw it away, or give it away?

2. Write their answers in the chart.

Classmate Choice Reason
Example Lucy keep it throw it away give it away It’s old.
✓

1 keep it throw it away give it away

2 keep it throw it away give it away

3 keep it throw it away give it away

4 keep it throw it away give it away

5 keep it throw it away give it away

D Tell a partner about the advice and your choice.    There are three votes for “keep it.”
My choice is to keep the shirt.

© National Geographic Learning
3B GOALS Now I can . . .

Describe objects that are important to me    1. Yes, I can.
2. Mostly, yes.
Talk about things that are near and not near
3. Not yet.

42 | UNIT 3

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 22 25/05/21 1:06 PM

──────── Page 101 ────────

B WRITING Use your notes in A. Write about the
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
object. 15–20 min
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Students may have conflicting feelings about
getting rid of their object. For example, their object
In this exercise, students will focus on an object
may be old, but it may have sentimental value. Or
they own. This personal object may be of
it may not be their favorite, but it may be hard to
sentimental value or just clutter that they’ve held
buy because it’s no longer available. To enable
onto. Ideally, it’s something that they’re not quite
students to express these opposing feelings,
sure what to do with. Refer back to the unit opener
we’ve introduced but here. Encourage students
photo of the Cuban man with the old car. Remind
to include one sentence with but and one with
students of the word keep. Say, Some people, like
and if they can. Go over the writing sample in the
this man, keep things for a long time. They keep
box. Ask comprehension questions like, Is it her
old things. Write on the board keep throw away
favorite? Where is it from? Students should now
to reinforce the meaning. Say, This is an old car.
write some sentences about their objects, referring
What other old things do people keep? As students
to their answers in A to organize their writing.
say their answers, compile a list on the board (see
Teaching Tip). (Possible ideas: toys from childhood,
comic books, an old T-shirt, books you’ve already
C Show your picture in A to five classmates. Tell
read, papers, gifts you’ve received, old jewelry /
them about your object. 15–20 min
photos / electronics / shoes, any collectible)
Pre-teach vocabulary. Give an object to a student
Optional: Bring in photos of people with different
as you say, give away. Explain the exercise. After
objects and show them to your students. As they
students tell their partners about their object,
look at each one, have them shout out keep (if they
teach them to ask, What do you think? when
think the person should keep the object(s), or throw
asking for advice. Have students move around
away (if they think the opposite).
the class getting opinions from their classmates.

D Tell a partner about the advice and your choice.
TEACHING TIP: Brainstorming as a class
5 min
When we brainstorm, we allow ourselves to think
Put students in pairs. Have them tell each other
“outside the box.” No idea is off limits. The point
which piece of advice they took.
is to come up with a lot of ideas in a short amount
of time. Students should be encouraged to say
Diagnostics
anything, even in their own language (and you
Check students’ competencies as follows:
can write the English equivalent on the board).
• Are students able to name a variety of everyday
Brainstorming is often used in writing, but can be
objects?
used to generate ideas for anything.
• Are they using adjectives to describe their
personal objects in detail?
A Think of an old object in your room. Draw a picture
• Are they using demonstratives to talk about the
of it. Then complete the information. 15 min
objects?
Talk about your own personal object. Show it to
• Are they thanking others for their help?
your students as you talk about it: This is a toy.
It’s my favorite soccer player. It’s old. It’s broken,
but it’s important to me. I like it. Give students
3B
GOALS
time to think of an object. They can use the list
you’ve compiled on the board for help if they
Review students’ self-assessment in the
choose. Discourage them from choosing an old
goals box. Point out to students where in the
object that they should obviously throw away
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
(for example, extra water bottles or old towels).
they can review those exercises to improve
Circulate and help students with vocabulary.
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
© National Geographic Learning
Describe objects that are important to you:
Students should draw a simple picture of their
Vocabulary, page 37, C and D; Listening,
object to be used as visual support. (Note: The
page 40, E; Active English, page 42, A–C
object can also be a plural noun, like papers or
Talk about things that are near and not near:
earrings. If they go with a plural form, help them
Grammar, page 41, A and B
with the grammar.) Have students write the name
of their object next to the drawing and answer
the questions.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson B | 42a

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 23 25/05/21 1:06 PM

──────── Page 102 ────────

C Watch Ashley and Clare talk about their favorite
GLOBAL VOICES
gadgets. Circle your answers. 5–10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Have students first silently read through the
items. Show students the meaning of one minute
Point at the photo. Say, This is a drone. This man
and two minutes on a clock face. Write the
has a drone. Ask questions about the drone: Are
numbers 5 and 10 on the board. Play the video
drones expensive? Are they big or small? Are they
and have students circle their answers. Students
new? Popular? Exciting? Interesting? Maybe your
can then check their answers with a partner
students will say they are new and exciting, but not
before you go over them as a class.
so popular right now. All of this information will help
them understand the meaning of the word gadget in
the following exercise. Ask, Do you have a drone?
D Draw or show a picture of your favorite gadget.
Tell a partner about it. Use at least three of the
words in the box. 10–15 min
A Look up the word gadget in your dictionary. What
Have students draw a picture of their favorite
is one gadget you use? Write your answer. Share
gadget. Give them time to make some notes
it with a partner. 5–10 min
about the gadget and then tell their partner
Before you move forward, it's important for
about it. They should use at least three of the
students to understand the definition of the word
words in the box in addition to their own ideas.
gadget. Gadgets are typically small objects that
Come back together and have students share
we use to make our lives easier. The word is
their answers with the class. Ask the class, Are
often used to refer to new objects that may be
these gadgets interesting to you?
expensive when they first appear on the market.

EXTRA! Please buy my gadget! 10–15 min
TEACHING TIP: Dictionary work / Expanding
vocabulary
Write the names of these four gadgets on the board:
1. robot pet, 2. smart shoes, 3. robot vacuum,
When students look up a word in the dictionary, they
4. quiet headphones (noise canceling headphones).
can build on their vocabulary. For the word gadget,
Briefly explain and mime using each item: The robot
for example, the dictionary says, a small machine
vacuum is a fun gadget. It cleans your floors. Smart
or tool that does something useful. This is a good
shoes are a computer. They count your steps. They
opportunity for students to learn the word tool (often
are expensive. Once students have understood the
an object you hold in your hand) and machine (a
different gadgets, have them count off from 1 to 4 and
piece of equipment that has several parts and
assign them to the corresponding item.
uses mechanical power). A screwdriver would be
a “tool,” whereas a sewing machine would be a
Put students into groups of four. They are going to
“machine.” Students can add these words to their
try to convince their partners to buy their gadget.
vocabulary lists.
Give them a brief “script” to use: This is a (name of
gadget). It’s (description: 3–4 sentences). Please
buy my gadget! After students know what they
B Watch the first part of the video. What gadgets do
are going to say, have them take turns presenting
you see? Write their names. 10 min
to their group members. They should act as if the
gadget is sitting next to them and try to “sell” it
You can play the video with the sound off. Freeze
enthusiastically: This is a robot pet. It’s expensive,
the video on the sketch of each gadget and
but it’s really fun. It’s really cute! It’s your new friend.
ask, What is this? Have students call out their
Please buy my gadget!
guesses. For ones they don’t know (for example,
memory stick), you can tell them the answer.
After the presentations are finished, students should
vote on their favorite. Have some groups report
Go back to the start of the video where there are
back to the class on their results.
drawings of each of the six gadgets together on
screen. Pause the video and point to each one
and ask again, What’s this? Give students time to
© National Geographic Learning
write their answers. You can assist with spelling,
as necessary.

43a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 24 25/05/21 1:06 PM

──────── Page 103 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A Look up the word gadget in your dictionary. What is one gadget you use? Write your answer. Share
it with a partner.

B Watch the first part of the video. What gadgets do you see? Write their names.
camera
1.
phone
2.
laptop
3.
coffee machine
4.
memory stick
5.
microwave
6.

C Watch Ashley and Clare talk about their favorite gadgets. Circle your answers.
Ashley    Clare

1. I’m very / not very busy.    5. Clare’s coffee machine is clean / new.

2. This phone has a good / great camera.    6. It’s cheap / expensive.

3. The photos are really good / great.    7. It makes coffee in one minute / two minutes.

4. My phone is really expensive / important.    8. It has five / ten different kinds of coffee.

D Draw or show a picture of your favorite gadget. Tell a partner about it. Use at least three of the
words in the box.

cheap expensive fun good new popular    This is my favorite
gadget. It’s a drone
with a really good
camera. It’s a lot of fun!

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 43

WLTB_INT_U03_ptg01.indd 25 25/05/21 1:06 PM

──────── Page 104 ────────

REAL WORLD LINK BIG CITY OR SMALL TOWN?

A busy street
in Bangkok,
Thailand

A Look at the photos. Complete the sentences with the words in the box. Use each word once.
big busy capital friendly market nightlife small

capital    small
1. Bangkok is the of Thailand.
4. Tha Kha is a district with
big
It’s a city of over
5,500 people. It’s one hour from Bangkok.
eight million (8,000,000) people.
friendly
5. It’s a relaxing place with
busy
people.
2. The streets are with people
and cars.
market
6. It’s famous for its floating .
3. It’s famous for its shopping, food, and
nightlife
exciting .

B Unscramble the words to make questions about the two places.
Bangkok
Where is Bangkok
1. Bangkok / is / where ?
Is Bangkok a large city
2. is / Bangkok / large / a / city ?
Are the streets crowded
3. streets / crowded / are / the ?
Is Bangkok a boring place
4. Bangkok / place / boring / a / is ?

Tha Kha
© National Geographic Learning
Where is Tha Kha
5. is / Tha Kha / where ?
Is it a big city
6. is / city / it / big / a ?
Are the people friendly
7. people / the / friendly / are there?
Is it famous for its nightlife
8. it / famous for / its nightlife / is ?

C Work with a partner. Ask and answer the questions in B.
Student A: Ask about Bangkok.

Student B: Ask about Tha Kha.

44

WLTB_INT_RWL01_ptg01.indd 2 22/05/21 5:58 PM

──────── Page 105 ────────

D Which place—Bangkok or Tha Kha—is more
REAL WORLD LINK:
interesting to you? Why? Tell a partner. 5 min
BIG CITY OR SMALL TOWN?
You can either have students work with the same
Units 1–3
partners from C or assign them new partners so
that they communicate with a variety of people.
WARM-UP 5 min
Either way, let them discuss and report back their
Ask students to look at the two photos at the top of
views to the class.
the pages. In pairs, ask them to make a list of words
for things in each photo. For example, in photo 1,
NOTES
you can see people, cars, buses, motorcycles,
trees, a busy street. In photo 2, you can see boats,
umbrellas, a river, people in the boats, daytime.
After a few minutes, ask a few pairs to read their
lists of words aloud. Write them on the board and
help with pronunciation if necessary.

A Look at the photos. Complete the sentences
with the words in the box. Use each word once.
5 min

Check that all your students know where Thailand
is; show the country on a map if necessary. Then
ask students to read the photo captions. Ask,
Where are the people in the photos? (Bangkok
and Tha Kha) Next, have students complete
items 1–6. When checking the answers, ask
students to read the whole sentence aloud; this
gives you the opportunity, while checking the
answers, to review the pronunciation of certain
words and how to say large numbers.

B Unscramble the words to make questions about
the two places. 10 min
Here, students review question forms with
the verb to be by making questions that ask
about the information in A. After they have
unscrambled the words, have students compare
answers with a partner. Then check as a class
so everyone has the correct answers, which they
will use in C.

C Work with a partner. Ask and answer the
questions in B. 10–15 min
Assign students to pairs and have them take
turns asking their questions and saying the
answers using the information in A. Monitor their
conversations and give feedback afterwards.
You could also repeat the exercise by having
students change partners and / or exchange
© National Geographic Learning
roles.

TEACHING TIP: Repeating exercises

Sometimes teachers are concerned that if they
repeat an exercise, their students will grow bored.
But in general, students enjoy repeating an exercise
like C because they can try it out the first time and
then say it all correctly the second time. If you give
feedback and tell them what to work on between
each attempt, this will also increase their motivation.

Teacher’s Book UNITS 1–3 | 44a

WLTB_INT_RWL01_ptg01.indd 3 22/05/21 5:58 PM

──────── Page 106 ────────

E With a partner, think of a big city and a small
choose for themselves and it’s more interesting if
town in your country. Write them in the chart.
pairs produce a variety of work at the end.
5–10 min

Ideally, your students will work in pairs on this
H Work with another pair. Take turns. Thank the
exercise, but if some of your students are from
speakers for their presentation. 10–15 min
other countries and are the only one from their
Join pairs to make groups of four. Have students
country, they might need to work alone. On the
take turns presenting their big city and small
other hand, if your students are well traveled,
town. Afterwards, the pair that is listening should
they could choose a big city and small town in
say which place is more interesting.
another country that they have both visited.

TEACHING TIP: Listening students
F With the same partner, complete the four
When students present to another pair, as in H,
sentences in E to describe each place: Where is
sometimes the pair that is listening doesn’t
it? Why is it famous? How is life there? How are
concentrate. This can be for a variety of reasons,
the people? Use the words below. 10 min
but a common reason is that they are distracted by
Before students start choosing the words from
thinking about the content that they have to present
the box to describe the places in E, you might
afterwards. To focus listening students, they always
want to check their pronunciation of the words
need a task. In H, they are asked to give an opinion
in the box. You could read them aloud and have
afterwards, so they need to listen. Another way is to
students repeat or read them. Have students
tell the listening student(s) that they will need to ask
underline the stressed syllable in any words
a question afterwards.
with more than one syllable, like this: beautiful,
boring, busy, crowded, exciting, expensive,
famous, friendly, popular, relaxing.
NOTES

When they are ready, have students use words
from the box (or their own words) to complete the
four sentences about both places in the chart
in E. When they have completed the sentences,
have students practice saying them aloud.

TEACHING OPTION
Another option with E and F is to have pairs do
some online research and find out about another
city and town in a different country. They could find
out the information needed to complete the charts,
even if they get the information from sources that
are in their first language. If you decide to assign
this kind of research task, you might need to have
students do it for homework before the next class.

G You Choose Choose an option to present your
two places. Use photos and your sentences from
E. 15–20 min
You can let students decide which option
to choose, though it might depend on your
teaching context. For example, Option 1
is to make a video, so students will need
© National Geographic Learning
plenty of time to prepare this, and the right
equipment, though using the video mode on
their smartphones will do a good job. If you are
teaching online, it’s also easy for student to share
their videos and show them to the whole class.
Option 2 will require large pieces of paper in a
face-to-face class with colored pens, or students
can design the poster using a computer. If
resources and time are limited, then Option 3
can be done in any kind of teaching context.
Ideally, however, students will be in a position to

45a | Teacher’s Book UNITS 1–3

WLTB_INT_RWL01_ptg01.indd 4 22/05/21 5:58 PM

──────── Page 107 ────────

UNITS 1–3

A market in Tha Kha

Bangkok is an exciting
place, but I’m not into
D Which place—Bangkok or Tha Kha—is more interesting to you? Why?
big, busy cities.
Tell a partner.

E With a partner, think of a big city and a small town in your country. Write them in the chart.
Big city: Small town:
It’s in It’s in
It’s famous for It’s famous for
Life is there. Life is there.
The people are The people are

F With the same partner, complete the four sentences in E to describe each place: Where is it?
Why is it famous? How is life there? How are the people? Use the words below.

beautiful    cheap    expensive    good    popular
big / large    clean    famous    interesting    relaxing
boring    crowded    friendly    new    small
busy    exciting    fun    old    other:

G You Choose Choose an option to present your two places. Use photos and your sentences from E.
© National Geographic Learning
Option 1: Make a video about the two places.    Option 3: Write a social media post about

Option 2: Make a poster about the two places.    the two places.

H Work with another pair. Take turns. Thank the speakers for their presentation.
Pair 1: Present your two places.
Our two places are Osaka and
the small city of Takayama . . .
Pair 2: Say your opinion: Is Pair 1’s city or
My choice is Takayama. Osaka is fun, but it’s
town more interesting to you? Why?
expensive and crowded. Also, . . .

45

WLTB_INT_RWL01_ptg01.indd 5 22/05/21 5:58 PM

──────── Page 108 ────────

UNIT 4

ABOUT THE PHOTO
For three days, Muslims around
the world celebrate Eid al-Fitr
to mark the end of Ramadan, a
month-long period of fasting. In
People in Bangladesh
the photo, Bangladeshi travelers
traveling by ferry after
are returning home by ferry
vacation
following the Eid holiday. During
this time, public transportation
is very crowded. In the photo,
people who were unable to find
space inside the ferry find other
space on the boat.

INTRODUCE THE THEME
What are you doing right now?
What are you doing these days?
In Unit 4, students are given
the language to answer these
common questions so that they
are able to talk about everyday
activities and their studies.

In Lesson A, students learn to
say how they are feeling and to
ask and answer questions about
things they and others are doing.
In Lesson B, students talk about
classes they’re taking and other
things they are learning, and they
explain why they are doing these
things.

WARM-UP 10 min
Look at the photo and read the
caption with students. Make sure
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
they understand the words ferry,
/ Explain what you’re doing    / Talk about classes and school
travel, and vacation. Also ask,
/ Greet people and ask how they are    subjects
/ Talk about things you’re learning
Where is Bangladesh? (In Asia,
these days
near India)

Look at the photo. Answer the
questions. 5–10 min
talking on the board. Say, They
sitting. Ask students what pattern
Tell students to answer question 1
are talking. Draw attention to are
they notice when they look at
with a partner. Take answers
talking in your answer.
these sentences.
from the class. Students might
say things like, They’re in
Then tell students to answer
WARM-UP VIDEO
Bangladesh. They’re on a ferry.
question 2 with a partner using
About the video
the sentence They are . . . -ing.
Then write on the board: What are
© National Geographic LearningLeah (pronounced lee – ah) is a
Students can use their dictionaries
they doing?
college student. In the video, she
to help them. Elicit answers from
talks about things she and her
They are ing.
the class and write them on the
friends are doing.
board. Possible answers include:
Point to two people in the photo
They are reading / standing /
who are talking. Write the word

46 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 4

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 2 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 109 ────────

4
CULTURE TIP: College

In the US, the word college is used
more often than university. People
say things like, I’m in college.
She’s a college student. The word
university is normally used when
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THEACTIVITIES
giving the name of a school (e.g.,
QUESTIONS.
Seoul National University ).
1. Where are the people?
2. What are they doing?

A Look at the activities in the box.
WARM-UP VIDEO
Watch your teacher act out the
meaning of each word. 5 min
A Look at the activities in the box. Watch your
teacher act out the meaning of each word.
Say the words in the box with
drinking exercising talking
students and act them out.
eating studying teaching
Note that the words in the
box are present participles of
B Read the question. Then watch the video with
various verbs.
the sound off. As you watch, use the words in
A to tell a partner.
In Lesson A, students will learn
What are Leah and her friends doing?
the present continuous (be +
She is .
present participle). Here, the
He is .
language is being previewed.
They are .

C Watch again with the sound on. Complete the
B Read the question. Then watch
sentences with a word in A.
the video with the sound off. As
studying
1. Leah is business.
you watch, use the words in A
studying
2. Sophia is history.
to tell a partner. 10 min
exercising
3. Emile is at the gym.
eating
4. Renee is lunch and
Read the question below
talking
on the phone.
the direction line aloud. Tell
teaching
5. The professor is a class.
students that Leah is a college
studying
6. Paolo and Leah are for a
student. Then play the video
drinking
test. They’re also coffee.
with the sound off, pausing
periodically to ask, What is
D Cover your answers in A–C. Watch again with
the sound off. What are they doing? As you
she doing? / What are they
watch, tell a partner.
doing? Have students call out
answers using the sentence
stems and the words in the
box. Then have them complete
the sentences.

TEACHING TIP: Watching
silent video
C Watch again with the sound on.
D Cover your answers in A–C.
One way to prepare students to
Complete the sentences with a
Watch again with the sound off.
understand a video is to do a first
word in A. 10 min
What are they doing? As you
viewing with the sound off. This
watch, tell a partner. 10 min
Tell students to read the items.
helps students focus on people’s
See if they can complete any
Put students in pairs. Tell
© National Geographic Learning
actions, facial expressions, and
of the sentences based on
students to cover their
other non-linguistic cues. When
what they have already seen.
answers in A–C. Then play the
students focus on this information
Then play the video again, this
video again with the sound
only, they’re often able to predict
time with the sound on. Have
off. As students watch, they
what people are going to say or
students complete the items.
should take turns saying what
do, which prepares them to listen
Play the video a second time
the people are doing.
more successfully.
if necessary. Check answers
with the class.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 4 | 47

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 3 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 110 ────────

4A WHAT ARE YOU DOING?

VOCABULARY

A Say the words in blue with your teacher. Do you know any of these words?
i Notice
1. She’s studying for a test.
go to school
2. She’s watching TV.
listen to music
3. He’s texting a friend.
study for a test
4. She’s exercising and listening to music.
talk on the phone

5. He’s talking on the phone.
6. He’s eating pizza and drinking soda.
7. They’re going to school.
8. She’s shopping.

B What are these people doing? Match each sentence in A with a photo.

4    6

8

2    3

1

5 © National Geographic Learning7

What’s she doing?
C Cover the sentences in A. Point to a person and ask a partner
She’s studying.
a question.

48 | UNIT 4

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 4 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 111 ────────

Verb + preposition combinations are followed by a
4A WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
noun or noun phrase:

She’s listening to music.
VOCABULARY
She’s listening to her favorite song.
WARM-UP 5 min
Have students look at the photos. Remind learners
that they have already seen some of these activities
C Cover the sentences in A. Point to a person and
in the Warm-Up video. Have pairs point to the ones
ask a partner a question. 10 min
they recognize and say the activity.
Tell students to cover the sentences in A. Then,
with a partner, they should take turns pointing
to a photo and asking, What is he / she doing?
A Say the words in blue with your teacher. Do you
The other person can answer with a full or
know any of these words? 5 min
short answer (e.g., She’s studying (for a test). /
Tell students to look at the sentences. Say the
studying.).
words in blue with the class. Have students
circle the ones they already know.
EXTRA! The whispering game 20 min
Before class, write several sentences that use
TEACHING TIP: Vocabulary self-check
the vocabulary students have just learned (and
If you believe that some of the lesson vocabulary
that also incorporate words students learned
may be familiar to students, have them review the
in the Warm-Up video and earlier units). To keep
new words or phrases on their own and mark the
things simple, you may want to use only I’m in all
ones they already know. You can follow this up
sentences since students haven’t formally learned
by either pre-teaching the new items, or putting
the present continuous yet: I’m listening to my
students in pairs to look up new words in their
favorite song. I’m going to the gym. I’m texting my
dictionaries.
classmate. With books closed, have students work
in groups of five. Tell each group to sit in a circle.
Assign each person a number (1, 2, 3, 4, 5). Give
B What are these people doing? Match each
person 1 in each circle a sentence. Person 1 should
sentence in A with a photo. 10 min
read it, and then whisper it to Person 2. If Person 2
Have students work in pairs to match each
didn’t hear Person 1, he can ask Person 1 to
sentence in A with an activity in the photos.
repeat the sentence once (using Can you repeat
If students are unsure if a sentence goes
that?). Then Person 2 should whisper the sentence
with a photo, tell them to look for clues in the
to Person 3 and so on until the sentence gets to
sentences. For example, in the sentence She’s
Person 5, who should say the sentence aloud. Did
watching TV. students will already know she
the sentence travel around the circle correctly? If it
and TV. Have them find the photo with these
did, the group gets a point. Do one round with the
words. Students can also use their dictionaries
class to model the exercise. At the end of a round,
to help them, but they should remove the -ing
collect all the sentences, and give each group a
from each word before they do a search for the
different sentence—this time starting with Person 2.
word. Check answers with the class. Project
Repeat until you go through all of the sentences. At
or point to each photo, and call on individual
the end, go over the sentences. Which group got
students to tell you what’s happening (e.g., She’s
the most points?
studying.). Finally, draw students’ attention to the
information note. Explain that when they learn the
new vocabulary, it is good for them to learn the
prepositions (for, to, on) that go with the verbs.

LANGUAGE TIP: Verb + preposition
© National Geographic Learning
In English, verbs are sometimes followed by
prepositions (smaller words like for, to, on). In
everyday, rapid speech, prepositions are reduced
and can be hard for students to hear, which is why
it’s common for them to drop the words in speaking
and writing. For this reason, it’s helpful for students to
learn these verb + preposition combinations as a unit.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson A | 48a

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 5 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 112 ────────

C Listen for specific information. Listen again.
LISTENING
Circle the correct answer(s). One item has two
correct answers. 29 10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Tell students to look at their answers in B. See if
Point to the photo. Write on the board and say, The
they can guess any of the answers here in C.
woman is running. Then ask students to look at the
Then tell them to listen. This time, their goal is
photos on the Vocabulary page. Ask, Who is doing
to choose the correct answer(s) in 1–3, so they
homework? (possible answer: the woman with the
should listen for those words in a conversation.
computer) Who is waiting for a friend? (the man
Check answers with the class.
texting; the group of students). Point out that wait
can be followed by for.
Listen for specific information. When we listen
for specific information, we listen only for the
details we need: a word, a number, a date. We
A Say the words in the Word Bank with your teacher.
can ignore other things speakers are saying.
Look up new words in your dictionary. 5 min
Point out the words in the Word Bank. Say the
D Listen to the conversations one more time. Also
words aloud and have students repeat them. Tell
listen to the three answers. Circle A, B, or C.
students the words in the box are key (important)
30 10–15 min
words in the conversations they are going
Tell students to read the three questions. Then
to listen to. Tell them that they can use these
look at the first one with the class: What is the
key words to help them get the main idea of a
man doing? Tell students to look at their answers
conversation.
for item 1 in B. Using the key words they wrote,
ask them to give a possible answer to question 1
B Listen for key words; Understand gist. Listen
in D. Write students’ ideas on the board.
to three conversations. What is happening in
each? Write important words, not sentences.
Next, play conversation 1. At the end, students
29 15–20 min
will hear three possible answers to the question
What is the man doing? They should circle the
Tell students they will hear three conversations.
correct one (A, B, or C). Then tell students to
Ask, What is happening in each conversation? To
read questions 2 and 3 with a partner. Explain
answer, students should listen for key words and
to students that Gabby is a woman’s name
write them.
and Ben is a man’s name. Again, using their
Model the exercise by playing conversation 1.
answers in B, ask students to guess answers
Tell students to listen and pay attention to the
to these questions. Play conversations 2 and 3
important words. They might notice these words
and have students choose their answers. At the
(which should be familiar): phone, gift, popular,
end, check answers with the class. If students
(not) expensive. Play the conversation a second
need further support, write or project the answer
time. Then tell students to write the important
choices (A, B, C) from the audio script (which is
words they heard. Take answers from the class.
at the back of this book). If you do this, remove
If students need support, give one or two
this information before students do E.
answers (e.g., phone, popular). Then have them
use the key words to guess what is happening
E Check your answers in D. Do they match your
in the conversation. Another option for further
notes in B? Tell a partner. 10 min
support is to write this sentence stem on the
Have students work in pairs and compare the
board: The man is . Students can use
answers they gave in D with the notes that they
words form the Vocabulary section to complete
wrote in B. Are they similar?
the sentence. Do the same with conversations
two and three. At the end, tell students to check
their answers with a partner. As a class, go over
CULTURE TIP: Utah
the key words students heard and write them on
The woman in the photo is in Utah (pronounced
the board. Together, guess what is happening in
yoo-tah), a state in the western US. Utah is known
each conversation.
© National Geographic Learningfor its breathtaking natural beauty, its skiing, and the
Sundance Film Festival.
Listen for key words; Understand gist. When
we listen for the gist, we try to understand
generally what someone is talking about. To get
the gist, we pay attention to important (content)
words—nouns, verbs, adjectives. By thinking
about these, we can often get the main idea of
what someone is saying.

49a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 6 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 113 ────────

LISTENING

A Say the words in the Word Bank with your teacher. Look up new
WORD BANK
words in your dictionary.
do homework
run
B Listen to three conversations. What is happening in each? 29    wait for (a person, a bus)
Write important words, not sentences.

Conversation 1:

Conversation 2:

Conversation 3:

C Listen for specific information. Listen again. Circle the correct answer(s). One item has two
correct answers. 29

1. The phone is .
a. a gift b. popular c. expensive
2. Gabby and Jim talk .
a. now b. later c. tomorrow
3. Ben says the video is .
a. exciting b. relaxing c. interesting

D Listen to the conversations one more time. Also listen to the three answers.
Circle A, B, or C. 30

1. What is the man doing? A B C
2. What is Gabby doing? A B C
3. What is Ben doing? A B C

E Check your answers in D. Do they match your notes in B? Tell a partner.

A woman running in a park
in Utah, US

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson A | 49

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 7 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 114 ────────

People wait for the
subway in Paris, France.

SPEAKING

A Listen to the conversation. Then answer the questions with a partner. 31
Monique: Hello?    Monique: I’m waiting for the bus. It’s late!

Luis: Hey, Monique. It’s Luis.    Luis: Sorry to hear that.

Monique: Hi, Luis. How are you doing?    Monique: What are you doing, Luis?

Luis: Fine. How about you?    Luis: Not much. I’m watching TV.

Monique: So-so.    1. How is Luis? How is Monique?
Luis is fine. Monique is so-so.
Luis: Yeah? What’s wrong?    2. What is Monique doing? What is Luis doing?
Monique is waiting for the bus. Luis is watching TV.

B PRONUNCIATION: Combining words with how Listen and repeat. 32
How are you doing? ➔ Sounds like How’re you doing?

Fine. How about you? ➔ Sounds like How ’bout you?

C Practice the conversation in A with a partner.

D Complete the conversations below. Use the Speaking Strategy to help you. Then practice the
conversations with a partner.
are you doing
1. A: Hi, . How ?
SPEAKING STRATEGY 33
So
B: -so.
Greeting People and Asking How They Are
What’s wrong
A: Yeah? ?
J A: Hi, . . . How are you doing?
© National Geographic Learning
B: Fine. / OK. / All right. / Pretty good.
B: I’m studying for a test. It’s hard!
How about you?
are you doing
2. A: Hi, . How ?
A: I’m fine.
good about you
B: Pretty . How ?
L A: Hi, . . . How are you doing?
B: So-so.
right    are you doing
A: All . What ?
A: Yeah? What’s wrong?
B: Not much. I’m watching a video.
B: I’m waiting for the bus. It’s late!

E Greet four classmates and ask how they are.

50 | UNIT 4

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 8 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 115 ────────

EXPANSION: One-sided conversation
SPEAKING
10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
After pairs have practiced the conversation a couple
of times, project or write only what Monique says on
Elicit forms of public transportation. Write them on
the board, leaving Luis's lines blank. Tell students
the board. Ask students what public transportation
to close their books and see if they can complete
they use most often. Have students look at the
Luis’s part together.
photo and read the caption. Ask students, Where
are the people? (in the subway) What are they
doing? (waiting for the subway, reading, texting,
EXTRA! 10 min
etc.). Encourage students to use the -ing form of the
verb. They will get more practice with this form in
As pairs finish the exercise, tell them to think of two
the Grammar section.
new activities that Monique and Luis could be doing
and other ways they could be feeling that match
the activity. (For example, if Monique is shopping,
A Listen to the conversation. Then answer the
maybe she’s fine, not so-so.) Have them practice
questions with a partner. 31 10 min
the conversation again with their ideas. Alternatively,
Have students read the conversation. Then play
have students sit back-to-back so that they have to
the audio once through. For additional practice,
really listen to what the other person is saying.
play it again and have students repeat each line.
Read the questions aloud and have students
repeat with you. Clarify vocabulary as necessary.
D Complete the conversations below. Use the
Then assign students to a partner and have them
Speaking Strategy to help you. Then practice the
answer the questions. Ask them to underline
conversations with a partner. 10–15 min
their answers in the conversation. Then check
Tell students to work individually to complete the
answers as a class. Point out the difference
conversations. Remind them again about the
between How are you doing?, which asks about
difference between How are you doing? and What
a person’s feelings and gets an answer like, fine
are you doing? Check answers with the class
or so-so, and What are you doing?, which asks
before assigning students to pairs for practice.
about a person’s activities and gets an answer
like, I’m watching TV or I’m studying.
SPEAKING STRATEGY 33
Have students look at the Speaking Strategy
CULTURE TIP: How are you (doing)?
expressions. Remind them that in Unit 1, they
When English speakers ask, How are you (doing)?
learned how to greet people by saying Hi, Hey,
they usually expect a formulaic response, rather
Good morning. Explain that when people greet
than a lengthy explanation. Tell students that usually
others, they often follow up by asking how the
only close friends or family members would respond
person is doing (Hey Luis. How are you? ). People
with a detailed answer about their health, feelings,
are expected to reply with a fixed expression like
and concerns.
the ones here.

Say the replies with the class, noting that some are
B PRONUNCIATION: Combining words with how
positive: Fine, OK (said as each letter: O – K). Point
Listen and repeat. 32 5 min
out that it’s polite to follow up by asking: How about
Have students look at the questions. Point out
you? (= How are you doing?) Sometimes, of course,
that the words that follow how both begin with
people might not be having a good day. In this
the letter a and are said quickly together with
case, they might reply So-so. In this case, it’s often
how. Have students listen to the audio and
polite to say something like: Oh, what’s wrong? or
repeat. Point out that although the words How’re
Really? Sorry to hear that.
and How ‘bout are shown as contracted forms
because they’re said together in rapid speech,
E Greet four classmates and ask how they are.
we don’t write them this way.
© National Geographic Learning
10–15 min

Have students practice greeting several people
C Practice the conversation in A with a partner.
and asking how they are. Circulate and take part
5–10 min
in the conversations, helping with expressions
Have students work in pairs to practice the
and vocabulary as needed.
conversation. After they’ve done it once, have
them switch roles and practice again.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson A | 50a

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 9 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 116 ────────

No questions about the images: Is the woman
GRAMMAR
exercising? Are they waiting for a bus? Then
have students work in pairs to write two Yes / No
WARM-UP 5 min
questions about the photos in the lesson. Then
On the board, write these incomplete contracted
tell them to ask another pair their questions.
forms: I’ , you’ , he’ , she’ , we’ , they’ ,
which students learned in Unit 1. Elicit the missing
Finally, turn to Wh- questions. Write or project
information (I’m, you’re . . .).
these questions.

Are you studying? Yes, I am.
A Read the Unit 4, Lesson A Grammar Reference
What are you studying? (I’m studying) English.
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
Where are you studying? (I’m studying) in the UK.
the exercises below. 30 min
Tell students to turn to the Grammar Reference in
Remind students they already know who, where,
the appendix and look at the charts.
what. Get them to notice how we ask for more
information using these Wh- words. Point out
Look first at statements with the present
how to answer these questions.
continuous. Write on the board, I am watching
TV. Explain that when we talk about something
For additional practice, go back through
happening now (as we are speaking), we make
Lesson A and have students ask and answer
the sentence this way. Remind students that in
Wh- questions about the photos (e.g., Where are
speaking we use contractions. Cross out I am
they going? What is he eating? ).
and write I’m to make it, I’m watching TV. Next,
Finally, have students do the exercises in the
point to a male student in class. Erase I’m and
Grammar Reference. Then have them check
ask the class how to complete the sentence
answers with a partner by reading the sentences
now: watching TV. Elicit: He is / He’s. Do
in each exercise aloud. Check answers as a class.
the same with a female student (she’s) and a
group of students (they’re).
Alternatively, you may wish to assign the
exercises in the appendix for homework.
For additional practice, go back through
Students can do them and bring any questions
Lesson A and look at photos students have
they have to class. Then, during the next class
seen. Tell them to use the present continuous
meeting, put students into pairs or small groups
(and verbs they learned) to describe the photos.
and have them check their answers.
For example, She’s running. They’re waiting for
the subway.
B Work with a partner. 10 min
Next, look at Yes / No questions and write or
Students A and B should look at their respective
project these statements:
photos and write sentences about what the
1. I am studying.
people are doing. Tell students to pay attention
2. He is studying.
to spelling.
3. They are studying.

C Your partner’s photo is similar to yours, but
Below them, write or project these questions:
there are some differences. Find the differences
1. Are you studying?
together. Ask questions. 10 min
2. Is he studying?
Have pairs work together to find as many
3. Are they studying?
differences as they can using Yes / No and Whquestions. Do one example with the class. Note:
Look at the statements and questions and get
Students should not show each other their photos.
students to notice what the main difference is
At the end, check answers as a class. Have
with the question form. (The first two words—the
several students write sentences on the board.
noun and the be verb—change place.) Then say
© National Geographic Learning
each question with the class. Remind students
TEACHING OPTION
that they learned to ask Yes / No questions in
Unit 1. Tell them that we answer these Yes /
To make this more competitive, time the exercise.
No questions in the present continuous the
Tell students to find as many differences as they
same way. Draw students’ attention again to
can in five minutes.
question 1 (Are you studying? ) and give the
two possible answers: Yes, I am. / No, I’m not.
Then ask the class the other two questions. Take
D Repeat B and C with this new photo. 10 min
short answers from the class. For additional
Have students repeat B and C with the second
practice, go back through Lesson A and look at
photo. Check answers as a class.
photos students have seen. Ask students Yes /

51a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 10 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 117 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 4, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
exercises. Then do the exercises below.

THE PRESENT CONTINUOUS: AFFIRMATIVE AND NEGATIVE STATEMENTS
I’m / You’re / He’s / She’s / We’re / They’re (not) watching TV.

YES / NO AND WH- QUESTIONS
Question Word be verb + -ing Short Answers
Are you    Yes, I am. / No, I’m not.
Is he studying?    Yes, he is. / No, he’s not.
Are they Yes, they are. / No, they’re not.
are you (I’m) watching TV.
What doing?
is he (He’s) watching TV.
are you (I’m texting) my friend.
Who texting?
is he (He’s texting) his friend.

B Work with a partner.
Omar
Student A: Turn to page 212. Read the directions.

Student B: Look at the photo. What are Omar and
Alba doing? Write sentences.

C Your partner’s photo is similar to yours, but there are
some differences. Find the differences together.    Alba
Ask questions.

In your photo, is Alba texting?

No, she’s not. She’s . . .

D Repeat B and C with this new photo.

© National Geographic Learning
Eva

Ari
Mia

Jon Max

Lesson A | 51

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 11 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 118 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Follow the steps below to play this game.
1. Get into a group of three. Read the actions. Look up new words.

dancing to rap music saying hi to a friend on the street

drinking hot coffee shopping for a gift

exercising and listening to music studying for an exam

playing a video game texting someone

playing soccer waiting for a bus

reading a funny book watching a sad movie

2. Write each action on a piece of paper. Mix the papers and put them face
down. Then cover the actions in the box.

3. Student A: Take a paper and act out the action. You cannot talk! You have
Are you playing
one minute.
soccer?
Students B and C: What is Student A doing? Guess by asking Yes / No
questions. For each correct answer, the group gets a point.

4. Take turns as the actor and repeat step 3 until you use all the papers. Which
group has the most points?

© National Geographic Learning
B Play the game again. This time, use your own ideas.

4A GOALS Now I can . . .
1. Yes, I can.
Explain what I’m doing
2. Mostly, yes.
Greet people and ask how they are
3. Not yet.

52 | UNIT 4

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 12 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 119 ────────

Next, collect each group’s nine sentences and
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
give them to another group (or have students
swap sentences with a group to their right).
WARM-UP 5 min
Students should not look at the sentences
Write on the board, What am I doing? Then act out an
they get; they should place them face down
action that uses vocabulary students have learned in
on the desk. Have students play another round
this lesson and earlier units; for example, talking on
of Charades following the steps in A. For more
the phone, eating (something). To guess, students
practice, have groups swap the nine sentences
should call out a Yes / No question; for example, Are
they have with a different group and repeat
you talking on the phone? Are you eating . . .? When
A again.
a student guesses correctly, say, Yes, I am.

EXTRA! Role-play the action 15–20 min
A Follow the steps below to play this game.
Put students in pairs and assign (or tell each pair
20–25 min
to choose) an action from the box in A. Students
1. Tell students to get into groups of three. Have
should use this prompt to create a short role
them read the twelve actions in the box and
play that is at least eight lines long. In it, tell them
look up unfamiliar words. Confirm the meaning
they must use the Speaking Strategy to greet
of any new vocabulary with the class.
their partner and ask how they are; they should
also ask at least two questions with the present
2. Next, tell the group to take 12 slips of paper
continuous. Tell students to write and practice their
and write an action on each one. Then they
conversations. Then have them get together with
should mix the papers and put them face
another pair and do their role play without using
down on the desk.
their notes. The other pair should watch and say
what’s happening in the role play.
3. Tell students they are going to play a game
of Charades. Assign each student a role:
Student A, B, or C. Each group will need a
Diagnostics
time-keeping device (e.g., a phone). One
Check students’ competencies as follows:
person should also keep score. To play,
• Can they use the target vocabulary to talk about
students should do the following: In one
different activities?
minute, Student A should take a paper and
act out the action without talking. Students B
• Can they use the present continuous to explain
and C should guess what Student A is doing
things they and others are doing?
by asking Yes / No questions. If they guess
• Can they ask and answer Yes / No questions with
correctly, the group gets a point. If a minute
the present continuous?
goes by and the team can’t guess, they
• Can they ask and answer Wh- questions with the
should put the paper aside.
present continuous?
4. Then Student A should sit down and Student B
• Can they use the Speaking Strategy to greet
should take a paper and repeat step 3 with
others and ask how they are?
the team. When Student B’s turn is done,
Student C should take a paper and repeat
step 3. The group should keep playing until
4A
GOALS
they go through all twelve papers. How many
Review students’ self-assessment in the
points do they get? Which group in class does
goals box. Point out to students where in the
the best?
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
they can review those exercises to improve
B Play the game again. This time, use your own
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
ideas. 20–25 min
Explain what you’re doing: Warm-up video,
Tell each group to take nine slips of paper.
page 47, A–D; Vocabulary, page 48, A–C;
© National Geographic Learning
On each, they should write a different action.
Listening, page 49, D; Speaking, page
Students should think of their own actions, too.
50, A, C, and D; Grammar, page 51, A–D;
Allow them to use a dictionary to look up any
Active English, page 52, A and B
new action words they might not know in English.
Greet people and ask how they are:
Circulate, helping students with vocabulary.
Speaking, p. 50, A–E
Write new words on the board so everyone in
class sees them. Check students’ understanding
of the new words.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson A | 52a

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 13 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 120 ────────

class to say that we are studying in a class for a
4B AT SCHOOL
period of time in the present: I am taking an art
class / English class. Next, ask students to look
VOCABULARY
at the four statements in B. Tell them to read
only the sentences on the left. When students
WARM-UP 5 min
are done, tell them to look up. Ask students
Draw a word web like the one below on the board
comprehension questions like, What is Pedro
and ask students to copy it in their notebooks. Point
studying? Where is Yousef studying? What
to the word school and say it with the class. Then
is he majoring in? What is Emma doing? As
brainstorm different types of schools and add them
you ask these questions, check that students
to the diagram. Other ideas might include: driving
understand the meaning of the phrases in blue
school, cooking (culinary) school, nursing school,
and their patterns:
test prep center, sports / soccer academy.
• go to + school (I’m going to college in
Canada. = I’m a college student in Canada.)
high school    English
Types of    School
college
• major in + a school subject (I’m majoring in
schools    Subjects
art
business. = Business is my main subject.)
SCHOOL
• take a(n) . . . class (I’m taking an art /
business / cooking / exercise class.)
A The words in blue are subjects people study in
• prepare for + noun (I’m preparing for the exam. =
school. Say them with your teacher. Then add
I’m doing things so I am ready for the exam.)
ideas to the list. 15 min
Finally, tell students to read the sentences on
Have students read the list of words. Explain
the left again and to match a person’s sentence
that all are school subjects—that is, things
with the reason (a–d). Point out to students that
people study in school (like English). Then
plan (to) means you want to do something in the
say each word aloud with the class. Next, tell
future; it’s your plan: After college, I’m planning
students to circle the words in blue they know
to travel. Note: plan to + verb.
or that look familiar to them. Then have students
work in pairs—identifying which words they
Note that in Lesson A, students learned to use the
know and looking up those they don’t. Have
present continuous to talk about actions happening
them think of other school subjects or college
at the moment of speaking. The sentences in B
majors—especially those that are relevant to
also use the present continuous, but they describe
them. Elicit ideas from the class and add all to
things people are doing “these days”— for an
the diagram on the board. As you do this, point
extended period of time in the present.
out that certain general subjects can be further
subdivided—e.g., science might be broken
C What is each person in B doing and why? 5 min
down into physics and biology.
Have students check their answers in B. Each
person should talk about two people.
EXPANSION 5 min
For more practice with the vocabulary in A, ask
D Talk about yourself. Use two or more of the
students: What are your favorite subjects? Students
sentences. 10–15 min
can talk about their lives now or in the past.
Have students make statements about
themselves, using the sentence stems provided.
TEACHING TIP: Vocabulary word webs
Students can talk about their English studies
or other classes they are taking. They can also
A word web can help students organize related
talk about non-academic classes they’re taking
vocabulary. Creating connections among lexical
or things they are learning—e.g., I’m taking an
items in this way can help students study the
exercise / a cooking class for fun. I’m watching
material and recall it better than simply memorizing
© National Geographic Learning
videos on YouTube. I’m learning to play the
a list of words.
guitar. Have students share ideas with the class.
Which are the most common or interesting
answers?
B Read about the people. Pay attention to the words
in blue. Match a person with a reason (a–d).
To help students talk about other experiences, it
15 min
may also be helpful to introduce the expression
Have students look at the photo but not read
learning to (+ verb):
the caption. Ask, What are the people doing?
I’m learning to play the guitar.
Take ideas from the class. Then have students
read the caption. Point out that we use take a

53a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 14 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 121 ────────

4B AT SCHOOL

VOCABULARY

A The words in blue are subjects people study in school. Say them with your teacher. Then add ideas
to the list.

art    history    math
business    hospitality    nursing
engineering    information technology (IT)    science
graphic design    law
My idea:

B Read about the people. Pay attention to the words in blue. Match a person with a reason (a–d).
a. I’m planning to work in a large hotel
Yousef: I’m going to college in Canada.
in the future.
I’m majoring in business.

b. I’m doing it for fun.
Pedro: I’m studying hospitality.
It’s a two-year program.
c. I’m planning to go to college.
Emma: I’m taking an art class.
d. I’m planning to work for a Canadian
company after graduation.
Li-Na: I’m preparing for the
university entrance exam.

C What is each person in B doing and why?
Student A: Talk about Yousef and Pedro.    Li-Na is preparing for . . .

Student B: Talk about Emma and Li-Na.    She’s planning to . . .

D Talk about yourself. Use two or more of the sentences.
I go to . . .    I’m studying . . .    I’m preparing for . . .    i plan to + verb
I’m planning to go
I’m majoring in . . .    I’m taking a(n) . . . class.    I’m planning to . . .    to college.

These students
are taking an
art class.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 53

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 15 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 122 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 10 min
Tell students to look at the photo
and read the caption. Ask,
POPULAR ONLINE
Where are these students? Do
you know anything about this
university? What class are the
students taking? Have students
CLASSES
guess what they are studying.
Today, many famous universities are offering classes
online1 to everyone for free. What are some of the
CULTURE TIP: Harvard
most popular classes and why?
University
Five Favorites
Professor Michael Sandel teaches
Harvard University is the oldest
IT    the Justice class at Harvard
Classes in computer science and (1.) are
university in the US and is
University. People can also watch
the most popular. Today, many people are studying these
considered to be one of the best
the lectures online for free.
subjects. In the future, they are planning to work in tech
in the country (and the world). For
because there are many jobs and the pay2 is good.
this reason, over 40,000 people
well-being
Classes about (2.) are also popular. Today,
apply to the school every year.
many people’s lives are very busy, and this is hard. In
Just over 2,000 are admitted.
these classes, people learn to feel good. A very popular
class on this topic, The Science of Well-Being, is Yale
University’s most popular course ever.
A Prepare to read the article.
Today, more people are studying or working in other
5 min
countries. For this reason, many people are taking
foreign language
(3.) classes. (English, Mandarin, Korean,
Tell students to look again
and Spanish are the most popular.) Other people are
at the photo caption and
preparing for an English-language
to read the title and the
exam
(4.) like the TOEFL or IELTS.
paragraph below it only. Then
At Harvard University, there is a famous class
have them complete 1–3. Their
called Justice. In it, a professor from the university’s
goal is to understand what
law
(5.) school talks about different social
the reading is mainly about.
problems. He asks the question: “What’s the right thing
A Prepare to read the article.
Time students so that they do
to do?” The class is interesting, and many people take it
• Look at the photo and read the
this exercise quickly. Check
for fun.
caption.
answers as a class.
• Read the title and the
Learn more
paragraph below it.
Peking University (in China), Stanford University (in the US),
• For 1–3 below, circle T for true
B Predict. Look at the list
UNAM (in Mexico), Yonsei University (in South Korea), and
or F for false.
many others offer free classes on the internet. To learn
below. In your opinion, which
The reading is about popular
more, do a search for a college’s name and “free online
college classes. These classes
are popular online classes?
are .
classes.” 34
Choose five ideas. Tell a
1. free ($0) T F
partner. 10 min
1When something is online it’s on the internet.
2. for college students only T F
2Pay is money for work.
The classes are open to everyone.
Tell students to reread the
3. on the internet T F
paragraph below the title and
54 | UNIT 4
to think about the question at
the end [What are some of the
most popular (online) classes
and why? ]. Tell them also to
well-being (the state of being
our own personal experience
look quickly at the rest of the
calm, happy, and healthy).
to help us guess what we are
article, noting any important
Elicit from students things that
going to learn about. Then
key words they see. Tell them
lead to well-being: eating well,
when we read the passage, we
© National Geographic Learning
to circle these. (This should
exercising, friends.
check our predictions to see
be done quickly; students are
if they were correct. If not, we
Predict. Making predictions
not reading closely.) Then,
note what was different.
before we read prepares
with a partner, have students
us to understand a text
choose five classes from the
C Infer information. Read the
and think critically about it
list that they think are the
article. Write words from B in
when we read. When we
most popular—and that they
the reading. 15 min
make predictions, we look at
will read about. Encourage
information in the passage—
Tell students to read the
students to explain their
photos, the title, headings in
information under the heading
choices. You may also want
bold, key words. We also use
Five Favorites. As they do,
to review the meaning of

54 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 16 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 123 ────────

they will fill in each blank with
a word or phrase from B.
Students will have to infer (or
guess) what the answers are
by reading the text in each
paragraph. Model this for the
class. Have students read
the first paragraph under
Five Favorites. Then ask
them which answer from B
probably fits here (answer:
IT ). Ask students what clues
in the paragraph helped them
choose their answer. In this
case, phrases like computer
science or work in tech might
help students choose the
answer IT. Have students read
the other paragraphs and do
2–5. When they are done, have
them 1) check answers with
a partner, and 2) check their
predictions in B. Go over the
answers as a class.

Infer information. When we
infer information in a reading,
we make an educated guess
about something because
the information isn’t stated
explicitly in the passage. When
we make inferences, we look
B Predict. Look at the list below. In your opinion,
D Look at your answers in 1–5 in the reading.
for clues in the surrounding
which are popular online classes? Choose
1. Why are people taking these classes?
sentences and we also think
five ideas. Tell a partner.
Underline the reasons in the article.
about what we already know
art IT
2. Explain your answers to a partner. Use your
about the topic.
own words. Take turns.
exam law

foreign language nursing
E Answer the questions with a partner.
D Look at your answers in 1–5 in
hospitality well-being
1. Are any classes in the article interesting
the reading. 15 min
to you?
C Infer information. Read the article. Write
Tell students to read the
2. Find out about one more free online class.
words from B in the reading.
What does it teach? Why is it interesting
information under Five
to you?
Favorites again. This time,
their goal is to find specific
Lesson B | 55
information (why people
are taking these classes).
When they find it, tell them to
underline it. Do the first one
they’re looking for ideas to get
E Answer the questions with a
with the class. Ask, Why are
started. Question 2 can be
partner. 20 min
online classes in IT popular?
done in class or assigned for
Have students answer the
Answer: There are many jobs
homework.
© National Geographic Learning
questions with a partner. For
and the pay is good. Then
question 2, students can
have students do 2–5. When
research an online class or
students are done, tell them
EXPANSION: Online Classes
tutorial that’s interesting to
to check their answers with a
Put together a list of classes
them and then tell a small
partner. Encourage them to
recommended by students in E
group about it. Tell students to
use their own words to explain
and publish it.
read the Learn More section
why each online class is
at the end of the article if
popular.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson B | 55

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 17 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 124 ────────

In Berlin, the capital of Germany,
there are many murals painted by
artists from around the world.

LISTENING

A Look at the photo. Do you know anything about Berlin? Tell a partner.

B Read the question and 1–3. Then listen. Write a word in each blank. 35
These days, people from many countries are studying in Berlin.
WORD BANK
Why is it a good place to study?
A foreign student is
1. It’s a world capital of and .
business technology    from another country.
expensive    A startup is a small
2. The schools are good, but they aren’t .
company.
exciting
3. It’s an and interesting city.

C Listen for specific information. Read 1–4. Then listen and circle T for true or F
for false. Change the false sentences so they are true. 36

1. There are many tech companies in Berlin. T F
2. Some universities are almost free for foreign students. T F
3. At German universities, classes are in German only. T F
Many classes are in English.
4. Berlin is famous for its history, classical music, and food. T F
It is famous for its history, classical music, and street art.

D Work with a partner.
© National Geographic Learning
1. Read the question in B again. Cover your answers in B and C and explain.
2. Is Berlin interesting to you? Why or why not?

E With your partner, complete the sentence with the name of a city. Give two reasons.
In my country, is a good place to study.

1.
2.

56 | UNIT 4

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 18 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 125 ────────

C Listen for specific information. Read 1–4. Then
LISTENING
listen and circle T for true or F for false. Change
the false sentences so they are true.
WARM-UP 5 min
36 15 min
Look at the photo with the class. Ask students,
In this exercise, students are “fact checking”—
Where is the man? What is he doing? Then point
their goal is to determine if the information in a
to the mural. Ask, What’s happening in this mural?
statement is true or false. To do this, students
(See Culture Tip.)
must listen for specific information. To help them
focus on which information to listen for, tell them
A Look at the photo. Do you know anything about
to circle important words in each sentence. Do
Berlin? Tell a partner. 5–10 min
the first one with the class. In item 1, the important
words are many tech companies. Tell students
Have students tell their partner anything they
to underline these words. Then play the audio
know about Berlin. If they don’t know much,
and have students circle true or false. Check the
encourage them to use their phone to find one
answer as a class. (It’s true.) Next, tell students
fact. (They can do this in their native language.)
to read items 2–4. In each, tell them to underline
Take ideas from the class.
two or three words they will listen for. Then play
the audio and have students circle true or false.
CULTURE TIP: Berlin
Repeat if necessary. At the end, tell students to
correct the false statements. Play the audio again
• For years, a large wall divided the city into East
if needed. Check answers as a class.
Berlin (which was communist) and West Berlin
(which was not). People could not travel from one
Listen for specific information. On
side of the city to the other without permission.
standardized exams, students are often asked
The wall opened in November 1989 and Germany
to listen for specific information in order to
reunified in 1990.
complete a sentence or determine if information
• Today, almost one in every ten Germans is from
is true or false. It can help students to quickly
another country.
read the sentences or questions first and
underline two or three key words in each. Then
• Berlin is recognized by UNESCO for its street
they can listen for these.
art and murals. The city is also known for its
nightclubs and techno music scene.
CULTURE TIP: Studying in Germany
• Berlin is one of the greenest capital cities with
People not from Germany or the EU can study at
over 2,500 parks.
many public universities in Germany tuition-free,
though there is a small administrative fee that
foreign students must pay. International students
B Predict. Read the question and 1–3. Then listen.
must apply first and be given a residence permit
Write a word in each blank. 35 10 min
to start school. Students must also complete their
Go over the meaning of the words in the Word
course of study so they aren’t charged tuition.
Bank. Then tell students to read the question.
Ask students to read 1–3, guess some of the
answers, and then tell a partner. Take ideas
D Work with a partner. 10 min
from the class and write them on the board. Play
Tell students to read the information in B and
the audio. Have students listen for words that
C to themselves. Then tell them to cover the
complete 1–3. Play the audio a second time for
answers and explain to a partner why Berlin
students to confirm their answers. Then check
is a good place to study. Have them answer
answers as a class. Ask students if they were
question 2. Then take opinions from the class.
able to predict any of the answers.

Predict. When students are doing any kind of
E With your partner, complete the sentence with the
listening exercise, encourage them to always
name of a city. Give two reasons. 15 min
© National Geographic Learning
read the sentences or questions before they
In pairs, have students complete the sentence.
listen. Encourage them to try to guess some
If you are concerned that all students will choose
of the answers (where possible). Doing this
the capital city of your country, assign pairs
prepares students to think about ideas and
different cities or allow them to talk about cities in
language they might hear.
other countries.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson B | 56a

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 19 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 126 ────────

EXTRA! What are they doing? 15–30 min
GRAMMAR
In pairs, have students choose three famous living
WARM-UP 10 min
people. For each person, have them write two
Have students look at the photo and read the
sentences that answer these questions: What is he
caption. Ask, What is the man doing? Take answers
or she doing these days? What is he or she doing
from the class. Then write on the board, He’s taking
right now? Tell them to use their imagination. When
photos. Explain to students that the man is doing
all pairs have finished, put them in groups of four
this activity right now—at the moment of speaking
to share answers. Have each group choose three
(as they learned in Lesson A). Then tell students,
interesting sentences to write on the board. Discuss
The man is in Antarctica (where most penguins live).
these with the class, highlighting the difference
Then write on the board, He is working in Antarctica
between extended time activities and activities at
this month. Help students notice the -ing form of
this moment.
the verb. Point out that this sentence also uses the
present continuous, but it describes something that
B Two old friends meet on the street. Complete the
is happening for an extended period of time in the
conversation with the present continuous. Use the
present (this month).
words given. Then practice with a partner. 20 min
Have students complete the conversation
A Read the Unit 4, Lesson B Grammar Reference
with the present continuous. Check answers
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
as a class. Then have students practice the
the exercises below. 20–25 min
conversation with a partner.
Tell students to turn to the Grammar Reference
in the appendix and look at the chart. Go over
EXPANSION 10 min
the sentences with them. Point out the time
Have students practice the conversation in B again,
expressions that are often used with the present
but this time, change Carlos’s answer in Line 5 from
continuous—especially those used with events
pretty good to so-so. Tell students to modify the
that are ongoing in the present for a period
conversation to reflect that Carlos isn’t very happy.
of time (these days, this term, this week, this
Have several pairs do their role play for the class.
month). Students also saw sentences like this on
the Vocabulary page, where people said things
like, I’m taking an art class. For more practice,
C Make a new conversation. Use your own
write on the board (or project) the sentences
information in B. 20 min
below. Tell students to call out if the action is
Tell students to use the conversation in B to
happening right now or these days.
create their own conversation. Have them
practice with a partner a few times. (Remind
I’m studying. Please be quiet.
students also to pay attention to the expressions
She’s taking two business classes online.
they use and their pronunciation when they
Jon isn’t at home. He’s exercising at the gym.
greet people at the start. It’s a great chance for
Today, more people are studying online.
review.) Then have them do their role play for
another pair without reading their notes. When
Then have students do the exercises in the
they listen to the other pair, have them answer
Grammar Reference. When they’re done, have
these questions (which you’ve written on the
them check answers with a partner. Check
board), How is each person? What are they
answers as a class. Alternatively, you may wish
doing these days?
to assign the exercises in the appendix for
homework. Then, during the next class meeting,
EXTRA! Social media minute 20 min
put students into pairs or small groups and have
The present continuous is often used to talk about
them check their answers.
trends (things that are popular and that many
people are talking about). Have students work
© National Geographic Learning
EXPANSION 15 min
in pairs to think of one. It can be related to pop
For more practice with the sentences in A in the
culture, travel, education, general daily activities
Grammar Reference, have students work in pairs
(or other topics that students have language to talk
to write six comprehension questions using the
about). Then have student pairs make a sentence
present continuous. They can be about something
about the trend using the present continuous and
Maiko is doing now or these days: For example,
a hashtag. Give students an example: These days,
What city is she visiting? What is she learning about
everyone is watching the TV show . . . #popculture.
these days? Is she enjoying her vacation? Students
Help them with vocabulary and pre-teach phrases
should give their questions to another pair and then
like everyone is and many people are. Then have
answer the ones they get.
students share their ideas with the class. What do
people think of the trends?

57a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 20 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 127 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 4, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

THE PRESENT CONTINUOUS: EXTENDED TIME
A: Are you taking any classes online this term?
B: Yes, I’m taking an art history class online.
A: What are you doing these days?
B: I’m preparing for the university entrance exam.

B Two old friends meet on the street. Complete the conversation with the present continuous. Use the
words given. Then practice with a partner.

Carlos: Hey, Igor!

Igor: Hi, Carlos!

Carlos: How are you doing?

Igor: I’m all right. How about you?
what are you doing
Carlos: Pretty good. So, (1.) (what / you / do) these days?
I’m studying
Igor: (2.) (I / study) at State University.
What are you majoring
Carlos: Really? (3.) (What / you / major) in?
Are you working
Igor: Graphic design. What about you? (4.) (you / work) or
(are you) going
(5.) (you / go) to school?
I’m working
Carlos: Both. (6.) (I / work) part-time at a cafe.
I’m taking
(7.) (I / take) two classes at City College this
term, too.
What are you studying
Igor: (8.) ? (What / you / study)

Carlos: Photography and art history.
Are you enjoying
Igor: (9.) (you / enjoy) the classes?
I’m learning
Carlos: Yeah. They’re fun and (10.) (I / learn) a lot.

C Make a new conversation. Use your own information in B.
Photographer Joel Sartore
taking photos of penguins

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 57

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 21 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 128 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A WRITING Answer the questions.

Studying English: Interview Questions

1. Why are you studying English?
I’m doing it for fun. I’m doing it for my job.

I’m planning to travel. I’m preparing for an exam.

I’m majoring in English. Other:

2. What are you learning in your English class these days?

3. How are you doing in your English class? Is your English improving?

4. Outside of class, how are you practicing English?

B Interview three people. Use questions 1–4 in A. Write each person’s answers in your
notebook.

Is your English
Why are you    improving?
studying English?
My speaking is,
I’m preparing
but my listening . . .
for the TOEFL.

C Work with a new partner. Tell your partner about the three people you interviewed.
Use (but don’t read) your notes. Which answers are the most popular in your class?

Juan and Jin Soo are
preparing for the TOEFL.
© National Geographic Learning
4B GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Talk about classes and school subjects
2. Mostly, yes.
Talk about things I’m learning these days    3. Not yet.

58 | UNIT 4

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 22 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 129 ────────

C Work with a new partner. Tell your partner about
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
the three people you interviewed. Use (but don’t
read) your notes. Which answers are the most
WARM-UP 5 min
popular in your class? 20–25 min
Write the question and answers below on the board.
Have students read their notes. Then have each
Note that the same expressions used to talk about
student pair up with a partner—ideally someone
how we’re feeling can be used to say how things in
they didn’t interview in B. Have them explain the
general are going.
answers they got. (For example, Juan and Jin-
Our class is finishing Unit 4 in World Link. Think
soo are preparing for the TOEFL. Susana isn’t.
about your experience in class so far.
She’s studying English for her job.) After all pairs
have finished, have a whole-class discussion
How’s it going?
about how students are doing and which English
Great! OK / all right. So–so.
skills they feel are improving (or not improving).
This is a great opportunity to take stock of how
Have students choose their answer. Tell them they
the class is going and where students need more
will think about it more in these exercises.
practice and support.
A WRITING Answer the questions. 10–15 min
TEACHING TIP: Self-progress journal
Read the questions aloud for the class. Make
sure that students understand the meaning of
Encourage students to keep a self-progress journal
improving. (If your English is improving, it is
either in their notebook or online. In World Link,
getting better.) Tell students to work on their
students assess how they’re doing at the end of
own to answer the questions. In 2, 3, and 4,
every lesson, but they can also return to questions 2,
ask students to write their answers in complete
3, and 4 (from the questionnaire) after every four
sentences. Tell them to explain their answers in
units to get a broader sense of how they’re doing.
3. Circulate, helping students with vocabulary.
They can also use these journals as an informal way
of communicating with you, and to practice writing
in English.
B Interview three people. Use questions 1–4 in A.
Write each person’s answers in your notebook.
Diagnostics
20 min
Check students’ competencies as follows:
Tell students they are going to interview three
people. They will ask each person the four
• Can they talk about different classes and school
questions, but they only need to write notes for
subjects?
each person’s answers. Remind students that notes
• Can they use the present continuous to talk
are short and contain only the important words and
about things they are learning and doing
ideas, not complete sentences. Model an example
these days?
by asking a student question 2; write the answer in
note form on the board. When students interview
• Can they ask and answer questions with the
each partner, encourage them to ask follow-up
present continuous?
questions if appropriate. Model this for the class.
• Can they write simple sentences using the
If someone says (in reply to question 1), I’m
present continuous?
preparing for an exam, the other person can ask,
Oh? What exam (are you preparing for)?
4B
GOALS
LARGE CLASS OPTION
Review students’ self-assessment in the
In smaller classes, students can interview three
goals box. Point out to students where in the
classmates at random. But in a larger class, it
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
may be better to do the following: Have students
they can review those exercises to improve
form two lines, each with four students. (In larger
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
© National Geographic Learning
classes, you can have multiple pairs of lines.) Mix
Talk about classes and school subjects:
students up so that they’re not standing in line next
Vocabulary, page 53, A–D; Reading,
to the people they sit next to in class. The students
page 55, B–E; Grammar, page 57, A–C
in the two lines should face each other. Make sure
Talk about things you’re learning these
there is adequate space between students. When
days: Vocabulary, page 53, A–D; Grammar,
you say go, students should take turns doing their
page 57, A–C; Active English, page 58, A–C
interviews. Time students as they do this. When time
is up, signal for the students in line 1 to shift down a
space. (The person at the end of line 1 should then
move to the front of the line.) Now students should
interview their new partner. Continue in this way until
students speak to three different people.
Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson B | 58a

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 23 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 130 ────────

C Read the questions. Then watch the video one
GLOBAL VOICES
more time. Circle Yes or No. 10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Tell students to read the four questions. Then
start the video where the women answer the third
Look at the photo and ask, Where is this city? (It’s
question, What are your goals? Play the video
Chicago—pronounced sh -ka-go—in the United
all the way through and have students listen. As
States.) What’s interesting about it? (Its universities,
they do, they should choose Yes or No in reply
art scene, and nightlife) You could also ask
to each question. Replay the video as needed.
students to compare how Chicago is similar
At the end, tell students to look at the sentences
to Berlin, which students learned about in the
where they chose No. Tell them to change the
Lesson B Listening section.
sentence so it is correct. Replay the video as
needed.
ABOUT THE VIDEO
In the video, four women from different countries
LANGUAGE TIP: PhD
talk a little about their educational and professional
goals and why they are learning English. All of them
A PhD (pronounced P-H-D) is the highest degree
are studying in Chicago, a city in the state of Illinois.
a person can get from a university. A person with a
It’s the third largest city in the US (after New York
PhD may be addressed by the title doctor (e.g.,
City and Los Angeles).
Dr. Sanchez) or in an academic setting as professor
(e.g., Professor Chang).

A Watch the video. In it, four women are studying
English in Chicago. Where are they from? Write
D Ask and answer the questions in C with a partner.
the countries. 10 min
When you say no, give the correct answer.
5 min
Read the directions with the class. Then have
students look at items 1–4. The third (Palestine)
Have students take turns asking and answering
is given. Can students guess where the women
the questions in C with a partner. Then check
might be from by looking at the first letter of
answers as a class.
each country? Play the video, stopping it after
the women answer the question: Where are
E Work with a partner. 10–15 min
you from? If necessary, play this part again.
Tell students to work in pairs. Each person
Then have students write their answers. Check
should take the role of a person in A. Their
answers with the class.
partner should ask, Why are you studying
English? The other should reply. Then the first
B Watch the video again. Why are the women
person should ask a follow-up question, as
learning English? In A, match a person (1–4) with
modeled in the example. Then students should
a reason (a–e). One reason is extra. 15 min
change roles. Close the exercise by asking
Ask students, Why are the women studying
volunteers to do one of their role plays for the
English? Then have students look at sentences
class.
a–e. Make sure they understand the meaning
of goal (in the Word Bank) and communicate
EXTRA! 5–10 min
(to talk or write). Then play the video again,
Ask students: Are you similar to any of the people in
stopping it after the women answer the second
the video? Why or why not?
question: Why are you learning English? Have
students match each woman (1–4) with the
correct reason (a–e). Play this part of the video
again as needed. Then check the answer to
item one with the class. Write on the board:
The woman from is learning English
because . . . Show students how to use the
© National Geographic Learning
sentence on the board: The woman from
Japan is learning English because English is
interesting. Then have students check answers
in pairs using the sentence stem on the board.
Check answers as a class, replaying the part of
the video again if needed.

59a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 24 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 131 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A Watch the video. In it, four women are studying English in Chicago. Where are they
from? Write the countries.

Where she’s from Reason for learning English
WORD BANK
apan
1. J    a. She’s planning to continue her education.
goal = something you
exico
2. M    b. English is interesting. She always wanted
want to do in the future
Palestine
3.    to learn it.
razil
4. B    c. She’s planning to travel.
d. She needs to learn English to study nursing.

e. She’s trying to communicate better and
improve her skills.

B Watch the video again. Why are the women learning English? In A, match a person
(1–4) with a reason (a–e). One reason is extra.

C Read the questions. Then watch the video one more time. Circle Yes or No.
1. Is the woman from Japan studying business? Yes No
No, she isn’t. She’s studying science.
2. Is the woman from Mexico studying to be a nurse? Yes No
3. Is the woman from Brazil planning to be a teacher? Yes No
No, she isn’t. She’s planning to be a nurse.
4. Is the woman from Palestine planning to get a PhD in engineering? Yes No
No, she isn’t. She’s planning to get a PhD in computer science.

D Ask and answer the questions in C with a partner. When you
Is the woman . . .?
say no, give the correct answer.
No, she isn’t. She’s . . .

E Work with a partner.
Why are you studying English?

For my job. I’m
1. Student A: Choose a person in A. Imagine you are the person.
working in . . .
Student B: Ask your partner: Why are you studying English?
Oh, is that hard?
Then ask one more question.

2. Change roles and repeat step 1.
Chicago is the third largest city in the US. It has
some great universities and is known for its art
scene and nightlife.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 59

WLTB_INT_U04_ptg01.indd 25 22/05/21 6:04 PM

──────── Page 132 ────────

UNIT 5
5
ABOUT THE PHOTO
A color wheel is a circle with
different colored sections. It shows
the relationship between colors.
FOOD
In this case, the photographer
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
has constructed a “natural” color
QUESTIONS.
wheel from fruits and vegetables.
1. Do you know the names of these foods
in English?

2. Which ones do you eat?
INTRODUCE THE THEME
The topic of food is an essential
WARM-UP VIDEO
part of every culture and
community. Students should have
A Read these sentences about pizza. Look up
a lot to say about it!
any words you don’t know.

1. The main parts of pizza are T F
In Lesson A, students will learn
dough, tomato sauce, and cheese.
and practice saying different
2. Pizza comes from Spain. T F
food entrees. They will then have
3. Pizza is not popular in the US. T F
to recognize those words in a
4. Pizza is popular around the world. T F
listening exercise. Later, they will
talk about their personal likes
B What do you know about pizza? With a
and dislikes in an appropriately
partner, read the sentences in A again. Circle
T for true or F for false.
polite way. The grammar focus
is on affirmative and negative
C Watch the first part of the video. Check your
statements in the simple present.
answers in A.
Finally, students will get to plan
a dinner party and choose the
D Watch the video. Match the words on the left
with the sentences on the right. (One item has
perfect menu to satisfy their dinner
two answers.)
guests.
a. It’s white, red, and green.
1. Neapolitan pizza
b. It has cabbage in it.
2. Margherita pizza
In Lesson B, students turn
c. It’s named after Naples.
3. the Italian flag
their attention to eating habits,
d. It has no cheese.
4. lahmacun
discussing what makes a healthy
e. It’s named after a queen.
5. okonomiyaki
diet. They then read about two
ancient foods that are found in
E Check the sentence that is true for you. Then
many cultures: chili peppers and
discuss your answer with a partner.
licorice. They’ll listen to a talk on
I like pizza a lot.
the pitfalls of skipping breakfast.
Pizza is OK.
The grammar focus continues
I don’t really like pizza.
G
with the simple present: Yes / No
questions and short answers.
Students close out the lesson by
writing and talking about their
favorite food.
A Read these sentences about
blueberries, cherries, grapes,
pizza. Look up any words you
lemons, oranges; Vegetables: bok
WARM-UP 5 min
don’t know. 5–10 min
choy, broccoli, eggplant, peppers
Ask your students to keep their
potatoes, squash, tomatoes). Have
Read the sentences aloud as
books closed. Show them some
students study the photo. Then
your students listen, circling
pictures of different foods. Model
© National Geographic Learning
point to different foods and ask,
any unfamiliar words. Then
for students by saying, I like
What’s this in English? You can
read them again and have your
(name of food). What about you?
also ask, What do you see? Assist
students repeat. To quickly
Have students raise their hands
with vocabulary and compile a list
teach the words dough, tomato
to say the foods they like and
on the board. Mime the word eat.
sauce, and cheese, draw a
have them make sentences.
Ask, Which ones do you eat?
pizza on the board and point
Look at the photo. Answer the
to the different ingredients.
questions. 5–10 min
WARM-UP VIDEO
Pay attention to the English
The photo shows many different
pronunciation of pizza /’pits /,
About the video
kinds of fruits and vegetables.
which may be different from
In the video, students learn some
(Fruits: apples, bananas,
how your students say it.
fun facts about pizza.

60 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 5

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 60 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 133 ────────

B What do you know about
pizza? With a partner, read the
sentences in A again. Circle T
for true or F for false. 10 min
Put students into pairs and
have them guess whether
each statement is true or false.

C Watch the first part of the
video. Check your answers
in A. 10 min
Play the video up to the point
when you hear Let’s learn
some fun facts about pizza.
Have students check their
answers in pairs. In addition,
you could ask students to
make the false statements
true. For example, Pizza
comes from Spain Italy.
Ask, Who brings pizza to the
US? (Answer: Italians) What
city do they go to? (Answer:
New York City).

D Watch the video. Match the
words on the left with the
sentences on the right. (One
item has two answers.)
10–15 min

Have students watch and
match the words. When you go
A decoration of fruits
and vegetables
over the answers, ask students
to make sentences: Neapolitan
pizza is named after Naples.
(Note: In English, Naples
rhymes with staples.)
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
/ Order food from a menu    / Talk about healthy eating habits
/ Talk about foods you like and dislike    / Describe your favorite food
LANGUAGE TIP: Foreign words

The names of less well-known
foreign foods in English can
be challenging to pronounce,
E Check the sentence that is
even for native speakers. Your
true for you. Then discuss your
students shouldn’t worry about it
answer with a partner.
too much. For this exercise, the
5–10 min
c in lahmacun (“Turkish pizza”)
Do your students like pizza?
is pronounced like a j sound.
Have them check their answer
© National Geographic LearningThe easiest way to pronounce
and share it with a partner. If
okonomiyaki (“Japanese pizza”)
there’s time, take a class vote.
is to say the syllables slowly:
o-ko-no-mi-ya-ki.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 5 | 61

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 61 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 134 ────────

5A WHAT’S ON THE MENU?

VOCABULARY

A Look at the photos. Listen and repeat. 37

steak and a baked potato spinach salad with tomatoes    cheese and fruit
and onions

pasta with tomato sauce vegetable soup and bread    rice and beans

© National Geographic Learning
fried chicken a tuna fish sandwich a burger and fries

B Look at the photos and the list of drinks. Answer the questions
WORD BANK
with a partner.
Drinks
coffee
1. Which drinks do you like?
juice
2. Which foods do you like?
soda
tea
3. What other foods and drinks do you like?
water

62 | UNIT 5

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 4 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 135 ────────

B Look at the photos and the list of drinks. Answer
5A WHAT’S ON THE MENU?
the questions with a partner. 10–15 min
Review the words in the Word Bank. Have your
VOCABULARY
students listen and repeat. Then put students
into pairs. Have them put a check (✓) next to
WARM-UP 5–10 min
each food and drink they like. They should
How many fruits and vegetables do your students
then tell their partner their choices, including
remember? Put students into small groups and point
any of their own ideas they added: I like fried
at pictures of different foods as one representative
chicken. Circulate and assist with vocabulary as
of each group (on the count of three) calls out the
necessary.
answer. If you don’t have pictures to show, simply
have students go around in a circle, taking turns
EXTRA! Matching game 15–20 min
naming a fruit or vegetable.
Before you start the game, give your students some
time to practice. Say, a burger and . . . and prompt
TEACHING TIP: What do they know?
your students to call out, fries. Do this for all of the
One simple way to assess what your students know
items. Put students into small groups. Have them
is to actively listen for the words they don’t know
write these words on separate slips of paper in the
at all, the ones they struggle to pronounce, etc. A
following amounts:
simple exercise like calling out vocabulary words
Two copies each (for a total of 18 slips of paper):
can be used by you as a diagnostic tool. Based on
a burger, cheese, fried chicken*, pasta, rice, spinach,
what you hear from your students, you may want to
steak, a tuna fish sandwich*, vegetable soup
revisit particular points later in the lesson.
One copy each (for a total of 7 slips of paper):
a baked potato, beans, bread, fries, fruit, tomato
A Look at the photos. Listen and repeat.
sauce, tomatoes and onions
37 10 min
Each group should take the slips of paper, mix them
First, have students look at the photos. Point
up, and place them face down in a 5x5 grid. On
to each photo and say, Do you like this? Have
their turn, a student should turn over two pieces
students raise their hands for the foods that they
of paper. If they match, the student should say the
like. Then, read each caption and have your
words and collect the papers. Points are scored as
students listen and repeat. Follow up by playing
follows:
the audio while students listen and repeat again.
For items that match identically (for example, pasta
Point out that in most of the expressions, the
+ pasta), the student scores one point.
words are joined by the word and, but there are
two examples that use with. (It would be odd to
For items that match and complete a phrase (for
say, pasta and tomato sauce, for example.)
example, pasta + (with) tomato sauce), the student
scores two points. (Note that the student must say
Some potential pronunciation issues to watch
the entire phrase correctly to score the points.
out for:
*Also, fried chicken and a tuna fish sandwich can
• Baked ends in a /t/ sound, not a /d/ sound,
only match identically.) The player then gets to try
and the first vowel in potato is a schwa sound:
again by turning over two new pieces of paper.
/pə’teɪtəʊ/.
If the papers don’t match, the player turns them
• Tomato is very similar in pronunciation to
back over and it is the next player’s turn. The
potato: /tə’mɑ:təʊ/. The pronunciation of
first player to reach four points is the winner.
tomato may be very different in your students’
Alternatively, instead of going for points, you can tell
native language.
students to play a certain number of rounds.
• The second e in vegetable is silent—it is
not pronounced as a separate syllable:
© National Geographic LearningNOTES
/’vedʒɪtəbl/.

TEACHING TIP: Correcting pronunciation

Don’t be too heavy-handed if you teach these
pronunciation points. Students may already feel
self-conscious about their accent and you don’t
want them to feel more so. Explain to students that
these are more like handy tips to keep in mind
rather than mistakes. They will help students’
English sound more natural.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson A | 62a

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 5 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 136 ────────

CULTURE TIP: Food trucks
LISTENING
Food trucks are large vans that prepare, cook, and
WARM-UP 5 min
serve food to people on the street. In the US, they
often serve easy-to-prepare food (like hamburgers
Students should have their books closed. Point
or chili) as well as ethnic street food. The trucks are
to different pictures on the Vocabulary page and
popular because they bring local people together to
ask, What’s this? See if students can remember the
enjoy delicious low-cost food.
vocabulary they’ve just learned.

C Read the information in the box. Then listen and
A PRONUNCIATION: And Read the sentences.
repeat the sentences. 39 5 min
Listen. Notice how the word and is pronounced
in each sentence. Then practice saying the
First, have students read the information note.
underlined words. 38 10 min
Act out a scene to teach the word order.
Give one student an object and say, This
Ask students to keep their books closed and
is a soda. Then say, I’d like a soda, please
look up the word snack in their dictionaries. Have
and have the student hand you the object
students repeat the first sentence after you, in
(soda). Note that at this point, students don’t
chunks. Say, soup and salad (and have students
need to learn that I’d = I would. Rather, just
repeat), comes with soup and salad (repeat),
teach it as a fixed expression—something
and then finally the entire sentence (repeat).
we say when we are ordering food. Play
Do this with all three sentences. Then play the
the audio and have students listen and
audio and have students listen and repeat (see
repeat. See if they can notice the stressed
Teaching Tip). Students should pay attention to
(content) words in each sentence. (Answers:
the pronunciation of and in each sentence.
1. soda; 2. fried chicken, please; 3. salad).

LANGUAGE TIP: Content words vs. function
words
D Lara and David are ordering from a food truck.
Listen. Complete the questions. 40 5–10 min
Content words are the nouns, adjectives,
adverbs, and main verbs that carry the meaning
Have students listen and complete the
of sentences. Function words are the short
questions. Go over the answers as a class. Then
grammatical words in between (prepositions,
ask the questions in D while students choose
pronouns, articles, and auxiliary verbs). Content
an appropriate response from C. For example,
words are usually stressed in a sentence; function
Are you ready to order? Yes. I’d like a chicken
words often have a reduced stress: Cheese and
sandwich, please.
fruit is a good snack.

E Listen for details. Listen again. What do Lara
and David order? Write L for Lara or D for David.
TEACHING TIP: Manageable chunks
40 10 min
You can break sentences down into manageable
Students are going to listen for what Lara and
chunks to make it easier for your students to
David order from the food truck. Before going
comprehend. This can be done in a listening
over the answers as a class, write no one on
exercise, but also when students are reading. By
the board. Explain the meaning of the phrase
building up the amount of input gradually, students
and tell students that they will use the phrase in
will be better equipped to succeed.
their answers. Have them listen and write their
answers. To go over the answers, have students
ask each other questions like these for each item
B Look at the photo and read the caption. Then
in the list: Who orders coffee? (Answer: no one)
answer the questions. 10 min
Who orders salad? (Answer: David).
Have students open their books to look at the
photo and read the caption. Clarify vocabulary
Listen for details. The purpose of listening for
© National Geographic Learning
as necessary. (You can also show them a picture
details is to see if students can grasp specific
for the word dessert and say, This is a dessert.
information. Can they sift through everything and
I like it.) Put students into pairs and have them
pull out only the relevant information?
discuss the questions. Optionally, you could
have students come up with common foods
F Work with a partner. Practice ordering food and
that a truck in their area would sell. Model the
drinks. 10 min
sentence, We think (food) is a common food.
Put students into pairs. Have them practice
Write it on the board. Students should make a
ordering. Direct them to C and D for the
list of five foods. Come back together and have
language they will need to complete the
students share their lists: Our five foods are . . .
exercise.
Which foods are the most popular?

63a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 6 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 137 ────────

The most common food truck
specialties in the US are:
1. cheeseburgers, 2. tacos,
3. desserts, 4. American classics
(like hot dogs), 5. sandwiches

LISTENING

A PRONUNCIATION: And Read the sentences. Listen. Notice how the word and is pronounced in
each sentence. Then practice saying the underlined words. 38
WORD BANK
1. Your pasta comes with soup and bread.
snack
2. Cheese and fruit is a good snack.
3. Do you want a burger and fries?

B Look at the photo and read the caption. Then answer the questions.
1. Do you and your friends eat at food trucks? How about your family?
2. What’s your favorite food truck food?

C Read the information in the box. Then listen and repeat the sentences. 39
i Use I’d like to order food
and drinks in a restaurant.
1. I’d like a soda.
(I’d like = I want)

2. I’d like a chicken sandwich, please.
3. I’d like the salad.

D Lara and David are ordering from a food truck. Listen. Complete the
questions. 40
order
1. Are you ready to ?
drink
2. Anything to ?
© National Geographic LearningAnything
3. else?

E Listen for details. Listen again. What do Lara and David order? Write L for Lara or D for David. 40
L, D
a chicken sandwich bread coffee
L L
a tuna fish sandwich fries soda
D D
pasta salad water

F Work with a partner. Practice ordering food and drinks. Are you ready to
order? Yes. I’d like the pasta,
please.

Lesson A | 63

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 7 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 138 ────────

Pho Bo is a popular
noodle soup from
Vietnam.

SPEAKING
A Listen to the conversation. Then answer the    Bao: I’m hungry.
questions. 41    Emily: Me, too. What do you want to eat?

1. What kind of food is Bao asking Emily    Bao: Anything, really. Hey, . . . do you like
Vietnamese food
about?    (1) Vietnamese food?

2. Does she like it? What does she say?    Emily: (2) I love it!
She does. She says, “I love it!”
Bao: I know a good restaurant near here. It’s
a small and (3) friendly place. They have
good (4) sandwiches and noodle soups.

Emily: OK, then. Let’s go!

B Practice the conversation with a partner.

C Make a new conversation in A.
1. Replace the words 1–4 in the conversation. Use words in the chart or your own ideas.
2. Perform your new conversation for another pair.
© National Geographic Learning
1 2 3 4
SPEAKING STRATEGY 42
Chinese    see Speaking interesting    burgers
Talking about Likes and
Italian    Strategy    popular    pasta
Dislikes
your idea:    your idea:    your idea:
Do you like Indian food?
A: Do you like Indian food?
I love it!
Yeah, I like it.
B: It’s OK, but it’s not my favorite.
It’s OK, but it’s not my favorite.
A: OK, then, what about Korean food?
Not really.
B: I love it!

64 | UNIT 5

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 8 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 139 ────────

A: Do you like Spanish food?
SPEAKING
B: I love it!
WARM-UP 5 min
A: I know a good restaurant for tapas*. It’s a
Have students read the caption. Say, This is pho.
popular place.
Pho is Vietnamese food. (In English, the word pho
sounds like “fuh” when pronounced.) Ask, What’s in
A: Great!
the soup? (Stick to words your students might know.
(*Tapas are small side dishes or snacks.)
In the left bowl: onions (scallions), peppers, limes;
in the right bowl: beef, noodles, peppers. Ask,
What’s your favorite soup? What’s in it?
B Practice the conversation with a partner. 10 min
Have students practice the conversation in pairs.
A Listen to the conversation. Then answer the
They should take turns playing the roles of Bao
questions. 41 5–10 min
and Emily. Circulate and help as necessary.
Tell students they are going to listen to a
conversation between two friends. Play the audio
C Make a new conversation in A. 15–20 min
once and have students just listen. Ask the class
Explain the exercise to students. Step 1: They
the two questions. Point out the use of me, too
are going to replace the four underlined words
to signal agreement. If you’d like, you could also
in the conversation with words from the four
play the audio and have students practice the
columns in the chart. Give each pair of students
shadowing technique that they learned in Unit 3,
a couple of minutes to brainstorm and write
Lesson B. (Shadowing happens when students
down more words for columns 1, 3, and 4.
listen and repeat what’s being said as the audio
Step 2: Choosing from their expanded lists,
plays.)
they should use the new words to write their
own version of the conversation in A. Explain
TEACHING OPTION 5–10 min
that for this exercise, the person being invited
Have students read the Speaking Strategy. Write the
should practice saying no to the first suggestion
responses on the board with a big smiley face next
before agreeing to a second one. Also, point
to I love it and a frowning face next to Not really to
out that after the first Do you like . . . question,
show degree. Ask several students the question,
students should follow up by saying, How
Do you like Indian food? and listen for their answer.
about . . .? This adds variety, as it would sound
Then have students “pass the question” around the
oddly mechanical to repeat Do you like again
class: Student A asks B, B responds and then asks
and again. Ask for volunteers to perform their
C, and so on. Periodically write a different nationality
conversation for the class.
word on the board (e.g., Brazilian); students should
then make a question with that word.
EXTRA! Do you like pasta? 20 min
Students can create a slightly different
LANGUAGE TIP: Saying no politely
conversation. In pairs, have students choose a
type of food (for example, meat, pasta, soup,
When asked Do you like . . .?, you might answer with
sandwiches) and a specific food within that type
No, I don’t if you are among family members. With
(for example, they could choose gazpacho as a
others, though, it’s usually better to be a little more
type of soup or bolognese sauce as a pasta sauce).
indirect in English. You’ll notice that the strongest
Have students write down the ingredients of the
negative response in the Speaking Strategy box
dish (using their phones to research as necessary)
doesn’t use the word no at all: Not really. Another way
and then put the information into the following
to get your point across without saying no is to give
conversation. Have them practice with a partner:
an even softer (but clearly negative) response: It’s
OK, but it’s not my favorite.
A: Do you like pasta?

B: Yeah, I like it.
EXTRA! More practice with word stress
© National Geographic LearningA: How about bolognese sauce?
5–10 min
B: I’m not sure. What’s in it?
You can give your students some more practice with
word stress by using the conversation that follows.
A: Tomatoes, beef, and garlic.
Ask your students to mark the words that get the
B: It sounds good!
heavier stress (the content words) and then practice
reading it aloud. (Stressed words are marked in
bold.) Then have students practice the conversation
in pairs.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson A | 64a

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 9 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 140 ────────

students that the simple present is used for
GRAMMAR
actions we do every day or all the time. Have
students read the first sentence silently. Then
WARM-UP 5–10 min
ask for a volunteer to complete the sentence
Have students keep their books closed. Write
with a verb from the box. Say the sentence
the word eat on the board and then mime eating
together, Sylvie drinks a glass of orange juice
something. Say, I eat cereal every morning. (You
for breakfast. Put students in pairs to work on
can use any breakfast food you like here.) Have
the sentences together. Come back together as
students listen and repeat. Then write I eat . . .
a class and have individual students read their
on the board. Call on individual students to make
answers aloud.
sentences about themselves, using I eat. Next,
write the word eats on the board. Point at a different
student and say, She / He eats (food). Have your
LANGUAGE TIP: Spelling of 3rd person singular
verbs
students repeat.
The regular ending for 3rd person singular verbs in
To contrast with the present continuous, write I’m
the simple present is to add an -s: drink ➔ drinks.
speaking on the board. Say, I’m speaking English
Show students how to change the -y ending to an
now. Then write I speak on the board and say,
-i and add -es: study ➔ studies. Also, add -es to go
I speak English every day in class. Have students
and do: goes / does. Practice pronouncing them as
listen and repeat. Then have them try saying the
well: goes /g ʊz/, does /dʌz/.
sentence on their own. Next, write on the board,
I speak / She . . . and point at a student. Can they
use the third person singular form (speaks)? (She
C Write about your own habits. Complete the
speaks English.) Do this with other verbs: write,
sentences. Use the sentences in B as a model.
study, read, etc. See if students can make their own
Tell a partner. 15–20 min
sentences: I English every day in class.
Now students are going to write about their own
Note that the simple present is used for actions that
habits. Point out that students should use B as
happen on a regular basis. Key points:
a model when writing their own profile. After
students have finished writing, have them tell a
• The addition of -s to the verb in 3rd person
partner about their habits. To give students more
singular (she eats).
practice with the 3rd person singular, you could
have each student introduce their partner to
• The use of do not (don’t) and does not (doesn’t)
another pair: This is San. He eats . . ..
for negative statements.

EXTRA! Guessing game 15–20 min
A Read the Unit 5, Lesson A Grammar Reference
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
Put students into groups of six. Hand out five slips
the exercises below. 10–20 min
of paper to each group. Five students should write
one sentence each about themselves using the
If you assigned the Grammar Reference as
verb drink; for example, I don’t drink coffee every
homework, go over students’ work in class now.
morning. Shuffle the papers and turn them face up.
Next, go over the information in the charts,
The sixth student has to then match each sentence
especially the negative statements. Write do not /
with the student who wrote it: I think (name) doesn’t
does not on the board with an arrow pointing
drink coffee every day. The student can then
to their contracted forms (e.g, do not ➔ don’t).
respond with, That’s correct. I don’t drink . . ., or I’m
Say, I don’t eat meat / He doesn’t eat meat as
sorry. That’s incorrect. Keep playing until the student
your students listen and repeat. Put students into
has matched all the sentences. Then play the game
pairs and have them tell their partner one thing
again with a different verb and a different student
they eat / don’t eat: I eat rice. I don’t eat steak.
guessing.
Then come back as a class and ask students
to tell the class about their partner: This is Sam.
He eats rice. He doesn’t eat steak. Listen for the
© National Geographic LearningNOTES
correct forms.

B Read about Sylvie’s habits. Complete the
sentences. Use the verbs in the box. You will use
some verbs more than once. 15 min
Before you start the exercise, have students
look up the words in the Word Bank in their
dictionaries. Next, go over the meaning of the
verbs in the box. Take a moment to teach the
spelling rules (see Language Tip). Remind

65a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 10 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 141 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 5, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
exercises. Then do the exercises below.

THE SIMPLE PRESENT
Affirmative Statements Negative Statements
Subject pronoun Verb Subject pronoun do / does + not Verb
I / You / We / They eat I / You / We / They don’t
meat. eat meat.
He / She / It eats He / She / It doesn’t

B Read about Sylvie’s habits. Complete the sentences. Use the verbs in the box.
WORD BANK
You will use some verbs more than once.
breakfast
lunch
do drink eat go know study
dinner
drinks
1. Sylvie a glass of orange juice for breakfast. She (not)
doesn’t drink
coffee.
eats
2. She eggs and toast. It’s her favorite.
goes    does
3. After school, she to a cafe and
her homework.
studies
4. She with friends in the library. Then they
eat
dinner together.
knows
5. Italian food is her favorite. She a good place for pizza
and pasta.
doesn’t go / doesn’t eat
6. She (not) there often. It’s expensive.

C Write about your own habits. Complete the sentences. Use the sentences in B as
a model. Tell a partner.
drink
1. I for breakfast. I (not) .
2. I . It’s my favorite.
3. After school, I .
4. I . Then .
5. food is my favorite. I
a good place for .

6. I there often. It’s .

Spaghetti with meatballs
© National Geographic Learning
is a popular Italian
American dish.

Lesson A | 65

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 11 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 142 ────────

1 2    3

8    4

7 6 5

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
WORD BANK
A You are having a dinner party. Read about your six dinner guests.    This food is spicy. (= hot)

Mary is from London,
Matias is from Buenos Aires,    Paula is from São Paulo,
England. She plays guitar in a
Argentina. He lives in Canada    Brazil. She studies art at
band. She is Sam’s girlfriend.
now. He teaches music at    the University of London.
She doesn’t eat meat.
the University of Toronto. He    She likes soccer. She eats
doesn’t eat seafood.    everything!

Benny is from the Dominican    Sam is from LA. He’s an actor.    Analyn is from the Philippines.
Republic. He speaks English    His brother lives in South    She’s an actress. She speaks
and Spanish. He plays    America. Sam loves Italian    English, Spanish, and Tagalog.
baseball. He loves spicy food.    food.    She doesn’t drink soda.

B Now plan your party.
1. Think about your dinner guests’ likes and dislikes. With a partner, make a menu for the party.
2. Next, think about your dinner guests’ jobs and interests. Using the photo above, choose a seat
at the table for each person. Include yourself and your partner at the table.

C Get together with another pair. Explain your menu and table seating.
Here’s our dinner menu.
© National Geographic Learning
We’re having . . .
Paula is in seat one. She’s next to Benny.
They both like sports. She’s across from . . .

5A GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Order food from a menu
2. Mostly, yes.
Talk about foods I like and dislike
3. Not yet.

66 | UNIT 5

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 12 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 143 ────────

London. She doesn’t eat meat. etc. Circulate and
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
listen for the proper use of the 3rd person singular.
(Note: If a group doesn’t have six members, that’s
WARM-UP 10 min
OK. The important thing is that each student gets
To prepare students for the exercise, write these
practice introducing one person.)
verbs on the board: like, live, play, speak, study,
teach. Point to play and mime strumming a guitar.
Say, I play guitar. What about you? Call on various
CULTURE TIP: Dinner party
students. They should say, I play guitar, too or I play
When you have a dinner party, you invite friends
piano. If they don’t play an instrument, they can
and family to your home for a sit-down evening
say, I don’t play guitar. or I don't play an instrument.
meal. If you’re a guest, it’s polite to bring a small gift
Make statements about yourself using all the verbs
(like a drink or a sweet treat).
on your list. After each statement, ask, What about
you?
B Now plan your party. 20–25 min
I like (food / drink). I live in (city / country /
To help students plan the menus for their party,
neighborhood).
ask the class, What food is good for a dinner
I play (sport). I speak (language).
party? Brainstorm ideas and write them on the
I study (subject). I teach English.
board. You can also refer students back to the
Vocabulary page for more menu ideas. Working
in pairs, students should read through the
A You are having a dinner party. Read about your
profiles and plan their seating chart for the party.
six dinner guests. 15–20 min
(They can write the name of each person on one
Students are going to plan their own dinner party
of the plates in the photo.) They should consider
(see Culture Tip). Say, You’re having a party.
what the different people have in common when
Point at the photo and say, This is your dinner
making their seating plan and not forget to
party. Point to the boxes and say, These people
include themselves at the table. (Make sure to
are your friends. They’re coming to your party.
write next to and across from on the board and
Put students in groups of six and have them
show students the meaning.)
count off from 1–6. Student 1 should read the
first box of information (about Mary). Student 2
should read about Matias, and so on. Give
C Get together with another pair. Explain your menu
them time to read and then clarify any words as
and table seating. 10–20 min
needed. Next, write the following words in a list
Each pair should join another pair and show
on the board: Name / Hometown / Music /
them their seating plan, giving their reasons:
Sports / Job / Languages / Food.
Mary is here. She plays guitar. She’s next to
Sam. Sam teaches music. If there’s time, have
As you point at each word on your list, model
students come to the board and draw their
a statement that goes with it as your students
seating arrangement and explain it to the class.
repeat. For example,

Diagnostics
Name: My name is . . .
Check students’ competencies as follows:
Hometown: I’m from (place). or I live in (place).
• Are students forming affirmative and negative
Music: I play (instrument). or I like (type of
statements correctly?
music).
• Are they remembering the -s ending when using
Sports: I play (sport).
he / she?
Job: I teach English. or I’m a teacher.
Languages: I speak English and . . .
© National Geographic Learning5A
Food: I like (type of food). or I don’t eat (food).
GOALS
Review students’ self-assessment in the
Point at the words again and call on students
goals box. Point out to students where in the
to make sentences like: I play soccer, I speak
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
English and Spanish, or I don’t eat fish.
they can review those exercises to improve
Now that students are warmed up, have them
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
introduce their person (Mary, Matias, etc.) to
Order food from a menu: Listening,
the other group members. Tell them to skim the
page 63, C–F
information again and write down four or five key
Talk about foods you like and dislike:
words. For example, the student assigned to
Vocabulary, page 62, B; Listening, page 63,
Mary might write London, guitar, girlfriend, meat.
B; Speaking, page 64, A–C; Grammar,
Students should then close their books and tell
page 65, B–C; Active English, page 66, B–C
their partners about their person: Mary is from

Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson A | 66a

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 13 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 144 ────────

LANGUAGE TIP: Dos and don’ts
5B EATING RIGHT
Dos and don’ts are a list of rules or advice. When
we give advice, we recommend certain behaviors
VOCABULARY
(the dos) and discourage others (the don’ts). The
dos start with a verb; the don’ts start with the word
WARM-UP 5 min
don’t before the verb.
Students have already learned the word snack.
Ask them to give you an example of one snack
food. Write it on the board. Then ask the class to
B Check your answers in A with a partner. Which
call out more snack foods. (They should not all be
things (1–6) do you do? 5–10 min
junk food; they should also include foods that are
Assign students a partner. Have them check their
healthy.) If students don’t know how to say a word
answers. Now that they have a list of dos and
in English, translate it for them and write it on the
don’ts, they should take turns telling their partner
board. Point at three or four different foods in the
about themselves by making sentences like:
photo. Ask, Is this a snack food? (Some of the foods
I don’t drink 6–8 glasses of water. I eat healthy
are typically eaten as snacks, while others aren’t.)
snacks. I eat a good breakfast. Circulate and
Add these words to your list if they’re not there
correct any problems as they arise.
already: popcorn, yogurt, nuts, crackers, chips,
bananas, cookies. Point to different words on the list
and have students make sentences: I like chips. I
C Answer the questions with a partner. 15–20 min
don’t eat yogurt. I watch movies and eat popcorn.
Students can stay with the same partner for this
next exercise. Read the questions and have
Have students look up the words healthy and
students repeat with you. Have them write at
unhealthy. Point to the word cookies on your list and
least three examples for items 1, 2, and 4, and
say, I like cookies a lot. They taste good, but they’re
one example for item 3. They should just write
unhealthy. They’re bad for you. They’re not good for
key words, not full sentences. Circulate and help
you. They’re high in sugar. Point to other words on
with vocabulary. Once they’ve finished, students
the list. Ask, Is it healthy? Are they good for you? Is
should move around the room, asking other
it low in sugar? You may also want to teach words
students the questions. For each encounter,
like vitamins, fat, and calories so students can say
students should ask a single question. The
foods are low in fat and high in vitamins, etc.
responder should answer with a single answer
and both students should check the word if it’s
TEACHING TIP: Vocabulary notebook
found on both of their lists. After a few minutes,
have students count up their check marks to see
It’s important for your students to keep a vocabulary
how many they have.
notebook where they can document new words
as they learn them. It can be helpful for them to
also note the context in which they encountered
D Tell the class two of your ideas in C. 5–10 min
the words and the words they collocate with. In
Have individual students call out an idea from
this case, students would write healthy / unhealthy
their list, using a full sentence: Candy is high in
snacks. This will help them remember the meaning
sugar. Compile a list of these foods / snacks and
when they return to the list later.
vote on students’ favorites.

NOTES
A Read the six tips. Pay attention to the words in
blue. Use your dictionary to help you. 10 min
The tips in this exercise are in the form of dos
and don’ts (see Language Tip). Have students
read the sentences silently. Then call on students
to read them aloud. Write a “+” and a “-” symbol
on the board. Write on the board eat this every
© National Geographic Learning
day as you point at the green leafy vegetable
in the photo. Say, Is this a good thing to do? as
you point at the “+” symbol. Students should
answer yes; write a check mark next to that item.
Write eat chocolate for breakfast. Since it’s a bad
behavior, write Don’t in front of the sentence as
you point at the “-” sign. Explain that the list in
this exercise is for healthy eating habits; we add
don’t to say something isn’t healthy. Students
can then write their answers for items 1–6.

67a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 14 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 145 ────────

5B EATING RIGHT

VOCABULARY

A Read the six tips. Pay attention to the words in blue. Use your dictionary to help you.
1. Which tips are good? Put a check (✓).
2. Which are bad? Write Don’t on the line.

Tips for Healthy Eating
WORD BANK
✓
1. Drink 6–8 glasses of water. It’s good for you.
good for you bad for you
Don’t    high in (sugar) low in (sugar)
2. Drink a lot of soda. It’s high in sugar.
✓    healthy unhealthy
3. Eat healthy snacks between meals.
Don’t
4. Eat a lot of cake and candy. It tastes good, but it’s unhealthy.
✓
5. Eat a good breakfast. It gives you energy.
Don’t
6. Eat a lot of food before bedtime.

B Check your answers in A with a partner. Which things (1–6) do you do?

C Answer the questions with a partner.
1. Water is good for you. What other drinks are good for you?

2. Soda is high in sugar. What other foods or drinks are high in sugar?

3. Give one example of a healthy snack.

4. What foods or drinks give you energy?

D Tell the class two of your ideas in C.    Fruits and vegetables
are healthy snacks.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 67

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 15 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 146 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Show students a photo of instant
noodles and a photo of rice. Ask,
Which food is an old food? Which
TWO POWERFUL
one is a new food? Have students
respond: Instant noodles are a
new food. Put them into pairs to
think of their own “old” and “new”
foods and drinks. Come back
FOODS
together. Elicit their answers. For
example, Potatoes are an old food.
Chili peppers are a type of fruit
Write a list of the items on the
from the Americas. People first used
board. Some possible answers:
them over 6,000 years ago! Today,
people all over the world, from Mexico
old foods: bread, corn, fish, meat,
to Thailand, are using chilies in their
milk, rice, water, wheat, yams /
cooking.
potatoes
Chili peppers taste good, but they’re also
new foods: fast food, instant
good for us. They’re high in vitamin C.1
noodles, junk food, microwave
This keeps you healthy. Many chilies are
also spicy. This spice gives you energy. It
ready meals, soda
also makes you less hungry, so you eat
Ask, Do you like old foods or new
less. Doctors think chili peppers can stop
foods? Or do you like both? Have
some kinds of cancer, too.
individual students tell you their
Licorice, a type of plant, comes from
answers and offer a simple reason,
southern Europe and Asia. Today, when
if they can: I like bread and corn.
people hear the word licorice, they think
of candy. In fact, licorice is in some sweet
They’re old foods. They taste good
foods (like candy) and drinks (like soda),
and they’re good for you.
but it is also a very old medicine.2 Two
thousand years ago, people used licorice
A Look at the photo and read the
for colds and other illnesses. Today, it is still
in some cold medicines. People also use
caption. Answer the question
it for stomach and skin problems. Some
with a partner. 5 min
doctors think licorice—like chili peppers—can
Have students open their
help people with cancer! 43
books, look at the photo, and
1 Oranges and lemons are high in vitamin C.
2 Medicine is something you drink or eat to stop an
read the caption. Working in
illness.
pairs, they should come up
with other healthy foods that
they know. Have a few pairs
share their ideas with the
class. Ask, Do you like chili
peppers? Do you like licorice?
68 | UNIT 5

LANGUAGE TIP: Oddly
pronounced words
Put students into pairs. Ask
words in your dictionary. Then
Sometimes it’s appropriate to ask
them, Are the underlined words
answer the questions with a
students to try to sound out words
nouns, adjectives, or verbs?
partner. 15–20 min
or to guess their pronunciation
Finally, have students look up
© National Geographic Learning
based on what they know about
Give students the following
the words and then answer the
similar looking words. Sometimes,
information:
questions in B.
however, a word (like licorice) is
noun examples: a
pronounced in an unexpected
Alternatively, you could expand
sandwich, chili
way. In this case, you just need to
this exercise and—before
peppers
teach the pronunciation and have
having students look up the
adjective examples: old,
students memorize it: /l k r s/ or
words in a dictionary—give
spicy, good
/l k r ∫/.
them additional practice
verb examples: eat, go,
guessing the meaning of words
study
from context. Read part of the
B Guess meaning from
section about licorice together
context. Find the underlined

68 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 16 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 147 ────────

as a class (starting with Today,
when people hear the word
licorice and finishing with
stomach and skin problems).
Call on individual students to
read (including the footnote
for medicine), with each one
taking a line. Once students are
Chili peppers aren’t only spicy.
familiar with this part of the text,
They’re also good for you. What’s
another healthy food?
have them find the underlined
words in B. Ask, Look at the
words in the article. What do
they mean? Can you guess?
Give students time to discuss
their ideas with a partner. As
a class, have students tell you
what they noticed.

Guess meaning from context.
As readers, we’ll always
encounter words we don’t
know. Instead of “getting
stuck” or passing over a new
word, your students can learn
to guess its meaning. This can
be done by considering 1) the
form of the word; 2) the words
A Look at the photo and read the caption.
D Take notes. Read and answer questions 1–3
Answer the question with a partner.
about your food only.
that surround it; and
Student A: Read about chili peppers.
3) your background knowledge
B Find the underlined words in your dictionary.
Student B: Read about licorice.
of the subject matter.
Then answer the questions with a partner.
1. Where does the food come from?
1. Which illness—cancer or a cold—is very
2. How do people use it today?
C Read the article. Then circle
bad?
3. Why is it good for us?
your answer. 5–10 min
2. Where is your stomach? Where is your
skin? Point to each one.
Have students read the question
E Ask a partner the questions in D about his or
and the answer choices. They
her food. What are the answers? Take notes.
C Read the article. Then circle your answer.
should guess the answer and
What does the article say about chilies
F Look at your answer in A. Name another
then read the article to confirm.
and licorice?
healthy food. Answer the questions in D
a. They’re both good for you.
about it. Tell a partner.
D: 1. (chili peppers) the Americas; (licorice) southern Europe
b. Chilies are good for you, but licorice is
D Take notes. Read and answer
and Asia
bad for you.
2. (chili peppers) for cooking; (licorice) in some sweet foods and
questions 1–3 about your food
drinks and in cold medicines
c. People don’t use the old foods a lot
only. 15 min
3. (chili peppers) high in vitamin C, give you energy, make you
today.
less hungry, may stop some kinds of cancer; (licorice) good for
stomach and skin problems, may help people with cancer
Put students into pairs
(Students A and B). A will
Lesson B | 69
read about chili peppers while
B will read about licorice.
Read the three questions and
have students repeat. You
down every word. Students can
of key words as a reference
don’t want students to copy
underline, circle, or highlight
for their own answers, and
sentences from the book. As
key words. They can also make
taking additional notes on their
they read, they should focus
notes in their own notebooks.
partner's answers. Circulate
© National Geographic Learning
on key words only and write
and help as necessary.
them down. For example,
E Ask a partner the questions in
to answer the first question,
D about his or her food. What
F Look at your answer in A.
Student B might write Europe /
are the answers? Take notes.
Name another healthy food.
Asia. (Note: The Americas refers
10–15 min
Answer the questions in D
to North and South America.)
about it. Tell a partner. 10 min
Write the three questions from
Take notes. Taking notes when
D on the board. Ask students
Have students think of a
students read will help them to
to close their books. Working
healthy food. Working with a
stay engaged with the reading
with a partner, they should take
different partner, they should
and organize the information.
turns asking and answering
ask and answer the same three
The key is for them to not write
the questions, using their lists
questions about their food.
Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson B | 69

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 17 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 148 ────────

Cheese, eggs, cucumbers, and olives are part
of a typical Turkish breakfast.
LISTENING

A How many times do you have breakfast in a week? Circle your answer below. Share it with a
partner.

a. 0 b. 1–3 c. 4–6 d. 7

B Predict. Students are not always healthy eaters. Read the sentences. Guess the answers. Then
listen and check your answers. 44

1. You will hear the speaker talk about skipping breakfast. What does that mean?
not    have
To skip breakfast means to breakfast.
bad    for
2. Skipping breakfast is you.

C What does the speaker say about breakfast? Read the sentences. Then listen and write your
answers. 45
meal    energy
1. Breakfast is an important . It gives you a lot of for the day.
healthy high
2. A breakfast has many different types of foods. The foods are
in vitamins.
© National Geographic Learning
D Listen again. Circle the two answers for each question. 46
WORD BANK
1. Why do students skip breakfast?    2. How do they feel?
There are three
meals in a day:
a. They like lunch more.    a. They’re tired.
breakfast, lunch,
b. They’re busy.    b. They’re sad.
and dinner.
c. It doesn’t taste good.    c. They have less energy.

E Look at your answer in A. Do you have a good habit? Tell a partner.

70 | UNIT 5

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 18 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 149 ────────

C What does the speaker say about breakfast?
LISTENING
Read the sentences. Then listen and write your
answers. 45 5–10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Play the audio. Have students write their
Ask, What do people eat for breakfast? What do they
answers. Then go over them together. Ask, Do
drink for breakfast? What do they have for breakfast?
you sometimes skip breakfast?
Have students call out the names of different foods
and drinks. Compile a list on the board. Encourage
students to be specific and to say orange juice or
D Listen again. Circle the two answers for each
papaya juice (not just juice). They can also call out
question. 46 5–10 min
brand names (of cereals, for example). Try to create
Make sure students understand that each
a long list. Read the items as students repeat. Call
item has two correct answers. Play the audio
on students to make sentences such as, People
and have students circle their answers. When
have papaya juice for breakfast.
students have finished, have them turn to a
partner and give one of the answers to the
first item. The second student should give the
EXTRA! I’d like . . . 5–10 min
second answer. Then they should do the same
Divide students into groups of five or six. Say, Let’s
thing with the second item.
play a game. You are ordering breakfast. Write I’d
like / She’d like / He’d like on the board and practice
using them in sentences with breakfast foods. Start
TEACHING OPTION: Dictogloss 10–15 min
the game. The first student says, I’d like followed by
Another option for D is to dictate some of the
the name of a breakfast food or drink. The second
sentences to your students. Take 3–4 sentences
student then has to repeat the first student’s item
from the audio; for example:
(She’d like . . .) followed by their own (I’d like . . .). As
Some students skip breakfast.
they go around the circle, students can’t repeat any
of the food items and have to remember what came
They are very busy, and they don’t have time.
before.
Other students don’t like to eat breakfast.

They say food doesn’t taste good in the morning.
A How many times do you have breakfast in a
week? Circle your answer below. Share it with a
Read the sentences while your students listen
partner. 5–10 min
and write key words. Then have them get into
small groups and compare notes. Together, they
Do a quick review of the numbers 1–7 and zero
should start reconstructing the sentences. Read
by having students listen and repeat. Point to the
the sentences again so students can fill in more
number 3 and say, I have breakfast three times a
of the words. After reading the sentences two or
week. Point to 7 and say, I have breakfast every
three times, have students come to the board and
day. Point to 0 and say, I don’t eat breakfast.
write the sentences. As a class, edit the sentences.
Have students practice with a partner and
Students can then use these sentences to answer
then tell the class about their partner: He eats
the question Why do students skip breakfast?
breakfast six days a week. Tally up the results for
the class on the board.

TEACHING TIP: Listen and write (dictation)
B Predict. Students are not always healthy eaters.
Dictogloss is a form of dictation and it helps
Read the sentences. Guess the answers. Then
students “piece together” meaning. It’s important
listen and check your answers. 44 5–10 min
not to give too much material for dictation and, at
Give students time to read through the
this level, it’s usually best to pull sentences from
instructions and the two items in the exercise.
content students have already listened to or read.
Then have them guess what they think the
You don’t want to give material to them cold.
answers are. As a hint, tell them to look back
© National Geographic Learning
at A as well as the sentence Students are not
E Look at your answer in A. Do you have a good
always healthy eaters. Have students write down
habit? Tell a partner. 5 min
their guesses and then listen and check.
Teach students the word habit. Based on
Predict. One way to get students into the
their answer in A and what they learned in the
listening is by giving them a question ahead of
listening, have students tell their partner, I have a
time. This helps them to focus and signals what
good habit. / I don’t have a good habit. I . . .
they need to listen for. This works especially well
when you have a word or concept that students
must learn to comprehend the listening.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson B | 70a

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 19 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 150 ────────

C Play the “Find someone who” game. Ask your
GRAMMAR
classmates about the information in B. 10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
In the “Find someone who” game, students
are going to find out information about their
Have students keep their books closed. Write do
classmates. To do so, they’ll be moving around
and does on the board. Say the words and have
the class and asking questions with Do you . . .?
students repeat. Ask, Do you like spicy food? At
Before you get started, though, write on the board
this point, see if your students can answer with the
Do you have . . . and explain that has in item 1
correct short answer. Note: This lesson focuses on
changes to have in the question form.
forming Yes / No questions in the simple present.
Key points:
The best way to explain the game is to show
students how to play. Have two volunteers come
• Remember to use does in the 3rd person singular
to the front of the class. First, have the class
(with he, she, it) and do in all other cases.
construct the Do you question: Do you have a lot
• Although we add -s to the verb in the 3rd person
of energy in the morning? Ask the first student
singular, we don’t do this in the question form:
and tell them to answer in the negative: No, I
She likes spicy food. ➔ Does she like spicy food?
don’t. Say, Thank you. Now ask the question
to the second student, who answers, Yes, I
do. Ask, What’s your name? and mime writing
A Read the Unit 5, Lesson B Grammar Reference
the student’s name in your book. Have one of
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the students ask you the second item (about
the exercises below. 10–15 min
vegetables). Answer No. Then, have the student
If you have assigned the Grammar Reference as
ask their classmate, who answers Yes. In this
homework, go over students’ work in class now.
way, you can show everyone that they’ll have
Read the first question in the grammar chart (Do
to change their vegetables to your vegetables
you . . .?) and the short answers as your students
when asking the second question.
repeat. Then ask, Do you skip breakfast? Call on
several students. Next, introduce the 3rd person
For this game to work, there are a couple of
singular. Ask, Does she / he skip breakfast? See
rules to keep in mind: 1) Students can ask only
if students can form the question Do you . . .? by
one question at a time to each classmate. They
asking you the same question.
can circle back later to ask a different question
to that person, but they can’t simply ask one
Write some phrases like these on the board:
student five or six questions at once. 2) Students
drink coffee, like vegetables, eat junk food. Put
should try to get a different name written down
students into groups of three. They should ask
for each question. Optional: Tell students that the
each other questions using you, he, and she.
game is a race and the first person to fill in all ten
After a couple of minutes, have students close
names wins.
their books and try it. Finally, go over the spelling
of don’t and doesn’t and show that they are
contracted forms.
TEACHING OPTION: Post-exercise review
5 min

When the game is finished, you can ask students to
B Read the sentences. Add one more sentence
share one piece of information that students learned
about eating and health. 10 min
about different classmates. Ask, What do you know
First, have students read through items 1–9
about Hector? A student could answer, He always
in the list. They should circle any words they
eats his vegetables.
don’t know and ask, What does (word) mean?
Try to first give an easy definition if you can (for
example, Rice and beans is a simple meal.).
NOTES
Read through the items as your students repeat.

Next, write the symbols “+” and “-” on the board.
© National Geographic Learning
Call out an item number (for example, 5), point to
a symbol (+ or -), and call on students to make
sentences in the affirmative or negative: I have /
don’t have coffee with breakfast. Students should
then use one of the verbs in the chart to come up
with their own tenth item (“your idea”). If they’re
struggling to do so, you can give students
some ideas: eats dinner with their family, skips
breakfast, likes / dislikes (food), has a big
breakfast.

71a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 20 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 151 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 5, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
exercises. Then do the exercises below.

YES / NO QUESTIONS SHORT ANSWERS
you    Yes, I do. / No, I don’t.
Do
they like spicy food? Yes, they do. / No, they don’t.
Does he / she Yes, he / she does. / No, he / she doesn’t.

B Read the sentences. Add one more sentence about eating and health.

Find someone who . . . Classmate’s name
1. has a lot of energy in the morning.
2. always eats their vegetables.
3. takes vitamins.
4. eats in a restaurant once a week.
5. has coffee with breakfast.
6. likes Chinese food.
7. cooks simple meals.
8. eats a healthy snack after school.
9. likes dinner more than lunch.
10. Your idea:

C Play the “Find someone who” game. Ask your classmates about the information in B.
1. Find a different person who says yes to each question. Write the person’s name.
2. Hurry! Complete your chart first to win the game. Sae, do you have a lot of
No, I don’t.
energy in the morning?

Stefan, do you have a lot    Yes, I do!
of energy in the morning?

Some people
like to practice
yoga to increase
their energy.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 71

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 21 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 152 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Answer the questions about your favorite food. Write your ideas in a few words.
1. What’s your favorite food?    4. What’s in it?
2. Where is it from?    5. Is it good or bad for you? Why?
3. When do people eat it (for breakfast,
lunch, dinner, or as a snack)?

B WRITING Use your notes in A to write a paragraph about your food. Use the example to help you.

My favorite dish is paella. It’s from Spain. People eat it for lunch. It has rice, chicken, seafood,
onions, tomatoes, vegetables, and a spice called saffron. It’s delicious and very healthy. It’s
high in protein, and the vegetables are good for you, too.

C Prepare a short talk about your favorite food.
1. Practice: Use your notes from A to talk about your food. Do not just read your paragraph.
2. Find pictures (photos, maps, etc.) or short video clips to use in your talk.

D Work in groups of four. Take turns.
1. One student: Give your talk.    Do you like
Other students: Listen and take notes. Answer the questions    paella?
in A (What’s their favorite food? Where is it from?).    It’s okay, but it’s not my

2. After the talks, ask your group members about the    favorite. Do you like it?
different foods. Do you like them?© National Geographic LearningI love it!
5B GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Talk about healthy eating habits
2. Mostly, yes.
Describe my favorite food
3. Not yet.

72 | UNIT 5

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 22 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 153 ────────

C Prepare a short talk about your favorite food.
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
This is a very important step. After students have
completed their writing, they should take time to
Ask, What’s your favorite breakfast / lunch / dinner
practice. Have your students read through their
food? What’s your favorite drink? Have students call
paragraph, mouthing the words quietly. They
out their answers. Then ask, What do you eat on
should go through it at least two or three times to
your birthday? What’s your favorite meal? Call on
familiarize themselves with the material.
students to answer in full sentences: I eat / drink . . .

TEACHING TIP: Reduce presentation anxiety
A Answer the questions about your favorite food.
Speaking in front of others gives many people
Write your ideas in a few words. 10 min
anxiety, especially when it’s done in a second
Write the following partial and full sentences on
language. You can lessen your students’ anxiety by:
the board:
1) assigning them a topic that they’re familiar with;
2) giving them plenty of opportunity to practice;
My favorite food is . . . / It’s from . . . / When do
and 3) giving the audience something to do while
you eat it? / It has . . . / It’s good / bad for you.
listening (to take the attention off the speaker).
It’s high / low in . . .

Have students read the questions in A aloud.
TEACHING TIP: Read and look up
Then tell students to think of a food they like to
eat. Ask individual students the questions (about
As students are practicing for their presentation,
their food) in random order and if they get stuck,
encourage them to read a phrase or sentence
point to one of the responses on the board to
and then look up before they say it. We want to
get them started. Next, erase the words on the
encourage our students to look at their audience
board and keep doing the exercise. Next, have
and not look down at their books when presenting.
students answer the questions by writing key
words rather than writing out full sentences.
D Work in groups of four. Take turns. 20–30 min
B WRITING Use your notes in A to write a
Have students take turns presenting in groups.
paragraph about your food. Use the example to
The audience should take notes and then
help you. 20–25 min
use those notes to each ask a follow-up question
to the speaker: You eat paella for lunch. Do you
Have your students practice reading aloud the
eat it for dinner, too?
writing sample on paella. Put students into pairs
and have them ask and answer the questions in
Diagnostics
A, but this time about paella. Circulate and make
Check students’ competencies as follows:
sure that students understand the content.
• Are students using the target vocabulary to list
While students are in pairs, have them each
ingredients and talk about healthy and unhealthy
think of a specific food. Again, using questions
foods?
2–5 in A, they should take turns asking each
• Are they using do and does correctly in their
other about their food. Based on their partner’s
simple present questions?
responses, they should try to guess what the
food is.

Once they have finished, students should now
5B
GOALS
write a paragraph about their favorite food.
Review students’ self-assessment in the
They should use their notes in A and the model
goals box. Point out to students where in the
in B for help. Circulate and offer assistance as
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
necessary. If there is time, have students share
they can review those exercises to improve
their writing with a partner. To keep the task short
© National Geographic Learning
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
and focused, have each student give one piece
Talk about healthy eating habits:
of feedback to the writer. This could be anything
Vocabulary, page 67, A–D; Reading,
from a spelling correction to a grammatical error
page 69, A, D–F; Listening, page 70, A–E;
to a confusing sentence. The writer should then
Grammar, page 71, B–C
make the correction.
Describe your favorite food: Active English,
page 72, A–D

Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson B | 72a

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 23 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 154 ────────

match the foods with their ingredients. Then
GLOBAL VOICES
put students into pairs to tell their partners their
answers: Ceviche is made with fish . . .
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Say, Naples is in Italy. Naples is famous for pizza.
Pizza has tomato sauce, cheese, and dough. (This
E Work with a partner. Look back at your foods in A.
is from the unit opener video.) Ask, What cities do
Ask and answer questions about the foods.
you know? Ask students to tell you about different
5–10 min
cities they know. Ask, What food is the city famous
Put students into pairs. Using the expression, It’s
for? What’s in it? Students should toss out ideas.
made with . . ., have students tell their partner
about the foods they wrote about in A.
A Write down three cities you know. What foods are
they famous for? Tell a partner. 10 min
EXTRA! Food map 5–10 min
Now students are going to write down some
Put students into pairs. Hand out a national,
ideas. Say, Write about cities you know. These
regional, or international map. Have each student
cities can be in their own country or region of
choose one or two cities and mark it / them on the
the world, or anywhere in the world at large. (It’s
map. They should be prepared to talk about their
up to you to decide what you want them to do.)
cities and the foods they are famous for. (Students
Tell them to write down three things: 1) the name
can make notes if they need to.) Have each pair
of each city, 2) the food it’s famous for, and 3)
post their map on the wall. One student (Student
some of the main ingredients of the food. Have
A) should walk around, learning about the cities on
students share their answers with a partner. They
the other maps around the room. They should ask
can ask each other, Do you like (food)? Do you
the other students questions about their maps and
eat (food)?
listen to their descriptions of those cities / foods.
The other student (Student B) should stand by the
B Watch the first part of the video. Complete these
map and be prepared to tell other students about
sentences about ceviche. 5–10 min
it. After a few minutes, students should switch roles
and repeat the exercise.
Show a map of Peru and point to the city of Lima.
Say, This is Lima. It’s the capital of Peru. Let’s
learn about the food scene there. Ask, Do you
NOTES
know any Peruvian dishes? Play the video again
and have students complete the sentences. Go
over the answers as a class.

C Watch the second part of the video. Read these
statements. Then circle T for true or F for false.
Correct the statements that are false. 5–10 min
Have students read through the sentences
about a famous Peruvian food: lomo saltado
/ˈlo.mo sal .̪ˈta.ðo/. Then play the video and have
students circle their answers. Remind them to
correct the false statements. Have individual
students read their answers aloud to the class.

CULTURE TIP: Ceviche

Ceviche, a national dish of Peru, originated in that
country. It is made with raw fish and citrus juices
and is not cooked with heat, so it must be eaten
© National Geographic Learning
fresh. It can be eaten as a side or main dish.

D Watch the video. Complete the task. 5–10 min
Before you play the video, return to the example
of pizza. Say, Pizza has tomato sauce, cheese,
and dough. It’s made with tomato sauce,
cheese, and dough. Write the underlined words
on the board. Students can learn this as a fixed
expression. They are going to use it for this
exercise. Play the video and have students

73a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 24 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 155 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A Write down three cities you know. What foods are they famous for? Tell a partner.

B. Watch the first part of the video. Complete these sentences about ceviche.
traditional
1. Ceviche is a dish in Peru.
healthy
2. Ceviche is very .
lunch
3. Many people eat ceviche for .
potatoes corn
4. People eat ceviche with Peruvian and .

C. Watch the second part of the video. Read these statements. Then circle T for true or F for false.
Correct the statements that are false.

1. Abel’s favorite dish is lomo saltado. T F
2. Lomo saltado is a typical Argentinian dish. T F
3. Lomo saltado is made with fish and potatoes. T F
4. You can have an amazing meal at world-famous and local restaurants in Lima. T F

D. Watch the video. Complete the task.
1. Write the ingredients from the box under each dish. One ingredient is extra.

chicken meat peppers rice
lemon juice onions potatoes seafood

Ceviche Lomo saltado
lemon juice    meat
peppers    onions
seafood    potatoes
rice

2. Write a sentence like this about each food:
Ceviche is made with .

E Work with a partner. Look back at your
foods in A. Ask and answer questions about
the foods.

© National Geographic Learning
A: . . . is famous for . . .

B: Oh really?
What’s in it?

A: It’s made with . . .

Causa limeña is a traditional Peruvian dish.
It’s made with potatoes, lime, and chicken
or tuna.

Lesson B | 73

WLTB_INT_U05_ptg01.indd 25 22/05/21 6:05 PM

──────── Page 156 ────────

UNIT 6

ABOUT THE PHOTO    6
In the photo, a man dances
to cumbia music with his
five-year-old niece at a block
RELATIONSHIPS
party in Brooklyn, New York.
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
Neighborhood block parties
QUESTIONS.
are common in New York City,
1. How do the man and girl know each other?
especially during the summer. At
2. What are they doing? Do you ever do this with
these gatherings, one or more
your family members?
streets are closed to cars so that
people can get together outside to
WARM-UP VIDEO
cook, listen to music, and spend
time with family and friends.
A In your country, are most families big or
small?

CULTURE TIP: Cumbia
B The video is about the Cason family. Read
the sentences. Then say the numbers in each
Cumbia is a style of music and
answer with your teacher.
dance that originated in northern
1. The Cason family has children.*
Colombia, along the Caribbean
a. 6 b. 16
coast. In time, it spread to other
2. The oldest child is years old.
countries and is one of the most
a. 20 b. 22
popular types of music in the
3. The youngest child is year(s) old.
Americas today.
a. 1 b. 2

4. In the morning, children go to four
different schools.
INTRODUCE THE THEME
a. 4 b. 9
How people think and talk about
5. Sometimes, children sleep in the
family is influenced by the culture
same room.
one grows up in. Dating and
a. 6 b. 7
marriage norms are also rooted in
C Watch the video. Circle the correct answers
cultural traditions, though some of
in B.
these are changing to reflect life
in the 21st century.
D Answer the questions with a partner. Use
ideas from the video to explain.
This unit gives students the
1. Is the Cason family big or small?
language to talk about family and
2. Is their life easy?
personal relationships in their
3. Is the family happy?
countries and their own lives. In
4. What do you think of the Cason family?
Lesson A, students learn to give
* 1 child ➔ 2 children
basic information about people in
kid (informal) = child
their families (including age and
how they are related), and they
share family photos. In Lesson B,
the focus shifts to personal
(romantic) relationships. Students
family members. Write all ideas
Then have students answer
explore how couples meet
on the board.
question 2, either in pairs or
and how expectations around
together with the class. As a
marriage are changing worldwide.
Look at the photo. Answer the
follow-up, ask students: Is the
questions. 5 min
activity in the photo fun? Do you
© National Geographic Learning
For question 1, write on the
WARM-UP 5 min
ever do fun activities with your
board The girl is his . . . and He
Write family and mother on the
family? What kind?
is her . . . . Tell students to look
board. Say both words with
at the photo, read the caption,
students and make sure they
WARM-UP VIDEO
and look up the word niece. (Say
understand the meanings,
About the video
the word with the class.) Then
either by translating the words
The video is about a very large
tell students to complete the
into students’ native language
family in the United States. In the
sentences on the board with a
or by drawing a simple family
video, Christi and Dave Cason
partner. For He is her . . ., see if
tree diagram on the board. Ask
had 16 children; as of 2021,
they can come up with the word
students if they know any other
they have 18. The video shows
uncle, using their dictionaries.
words in English to describe

74 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 6

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 2 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 157 ────────

A man dances with his
the family at home and presents
niece during a block party
some of the difficulties of having
in New York City, US.
such a large family.

A In your country, are most
families big or small? 5 min
Discuss with the class how
many children are in a small
family. How many in a large
family? In pairs, have students
say whether their family is
large or small. Then answer
the question in the direction
line with the class.

B The video is about the Cason
family. Read the sentences.
Then say the numbers in each
answer with your teacher.
10 min

Tell students the video is about
the Cason family. Ask students
to read sentences 1–5. In Unit 1,
students learned numbers one
to ten. To pre-teach 16, 20, and
22, write the numbers on the
board. Point to each and ask if
anyone can say them in English.
Then write the words sixteen,
twenty, and twenty-two on the
board. Say them with the class.
Also make sure that students
understand the meaning of the
words oldest and youngest. (We
use these words to talk about
age, which students will learn
about in this unit.) To illustrate
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
their meanings, write: Ana is 16.
/ Identify family members    / Talk about your relationship status
Gina is 14. Marc is 11. Ana is
/ Say numbers and talk about age    / State relationship preferences
the oldest. Marc is the youngest.

C Watch the video. Circle the
D Answer the questions with a
correct answers in B. 15 min
partner. Use ideas from the
Tell students to watch the
video to explain. 10 min
video. Remind them that they
Tell students to answer the
don’t need to understand
questions with a partner, using
© National Geographic Learning
every word; they should focus
information from the video
on the information they need
to explain. Then discuss the
to answer the questions. Play
questions with the class.
the video a second time, and
then have students check their
EXTRA VIDEO
answers with a partner. Ask
VOCABULARY
individual students to share
answers with the class.
take care of (someone)
fight

Teacher’s Book UNIT 6 | 75

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 3 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 158 ────────

6A FAMILY

Sofia’s Family

Maria Ernesto

Rosa    David    Elena Pablo

Ana Sofia    Daniel    Celia

WORD BANK: FAMILY
VOCABULARY
8. uncle
1. grandmother
9. cousin
2. grandfather
A Say the words in the Word Bank with your teacher.
10. grandparents
3. mother*
11. parents
4. father*
12. son
5. sister
B Work with a partner.
13. daughter
6. brother
1. Find Sofia in the family tree.
7. aunt
2. Talk about her family members. Start with 1. Take turns.
*You can also say mom and dad.
Maria is her grandmother.

C Cover the Word Bank. Who are the people in Sofia’s family?
David is her . . .
Tell a partner. Take turns.

© National Geographic Learning
D Practice again. This time, your partner points to a person.
You say the word.

E Say the words in the Word Bank with your teacher. Then find
WORD BANK
Sofia’s dad in the family tree. Answer the questions with a partner.
husband - wife
nephew - niece
Rosa
1. Who is his wife?
2. Who is his niece?
Celia

3. Does he have a nephew?
No, he doesn’t.

76 | UNIT 6

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 4 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 159 ────────

EXTRA! Spot the error 10 min
6A FAMILY
With the Word Bank still covered, tell students to
write the numbers 1 to 6 in their notebooks. Write or
VOCABULARY
say each sentence below on the board. Students
should read (or listen to) each and write T (for true)
WARM-UP 5 min
or F (for false) next to each. If the sentence is false,
Look at the family tree and say the title (Sofia’s
they should correct it.
family) with the class. Ask students to find and
circle Sofia. Ask, Is her family big, small, or
1. David is her mom. (F–He’s her dad.)
average? Elicit answers from students.
2. Daniel is her brother. (T)

3. Pablo is her aunt. (F–He’s her uncle.)
A Say the words in the Word Bank with your
teacher. 5–10 min
4. Celia is her cousin. (T)
Tell students they will talk about Sofia’s family.
5. Ana is her sister. (T)
Point to Maria and then the word grandmother in
6. Maria and Ernesto are her parents. (F–They’re
the Word Bank. Say grandmother with the class.
her grandparents.)
Then say, Maria is her (Sofia’s) grandmother. Do
the same with the other words in the Word Bank.

When you get to mother and father, explain
E Say the words in the Word Bank with your
that we use the informal words mom and dad
teacher. Then find Sofia’s dad in the family tree.
to talk about our parents (e.g., This is my
Answer the questions with a partner. 5–10 min
dad.) or when speaking to them (e.g., Mom,
Tell students to find Sofia’s dad in the family tree.
where’s my backpack?). Ask students what the
Ask, What’s his name? Then point to David’s
informal words for mother and father are in their
photo and ask the class question 1, Who is his
language(s).
wife? Say the word wife with the class. See if
anyone can guess the answer to the question.
CULTURE TIP: Family terms
If not, tell students: Rosa is his wife. He is her
husband.
English has fewer terms for family relationships than
some languages. For example, in English, speakers
Then say the words niece and nephew with the
use two words—grandmother and grandfather—
class. Remind them that they learned niece on
to refer to either their maternal or paternal
the unit opener page. Have students answer
grandparents. In Mandarin, however, speakers use
questions 2 and 3 with a partner. Take answers
four different words. The words for one’s maternal
from the class.
grandparents are different from one’s paternal
grandparents.
EXPANSION 5 min
Look at the family tree from the perspective of
B Work with a partner. 5–10 min
another person (e.g., Maria). Have students answer
questions using the vocabulary they learned on this
Tell students to take turns talking about Sofia’s
page and the unit opener only. For example:
family using the terms in the Word Bank. Model
the first one using the example.
• Who is Ernesto? (her husband)
• Who are David and Elena? (her children)
C Cover the Word Bank. Who are the people in
• Who are Ana, Sofia, Daniel, and Celia? (her
Sofia’s family? Tell a partner. Take turns. 10 min
grandchildren)
Tell students to cover the Word Bank and repeat B.
Can they remember the words? Have them do
this exercise a second time for practice.
TEACHING TIP: Limit new vocabulary
© National Geographic Learning
There are a number of other words that are used
D Practice again. This time, your partner points to a
to describe how people in a family are related, and
person. You say the word. 10 min
students will be learning them in this lesson. For
now, try not to burden students with too many more
With the Word Bank still covered, have students
words. It’s more useful to introduce a limited number
quiz each other. Model this for the class once by
of high-frequency vocabulary items than to run
pointing to a person at random (e.g., David) and
through a long list, which may be harder to recycle
saying, David is her . . . (Remind students they
and practice in class.
are still speaking from the point of view of Sofia.).

Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson A | 76a

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 5 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 160 ────────

Then tell students to listen and write a word or
LISTENING
number. Play the audio a couple of times. Check
answers as a class.
WARM-UP 5 min
On the board, write the numbers students learned in
the Warm-Up video (16, 20, 22) and see if students
EXPANSION 5 min
can remember how to say them. Say the numbers
Tell students to look again at question 2 in B. Using
and have students repeat.
their answers in C, can they say what they think this
family is doing in the photo? To help get students
A Practice the numbers. 15 min
started, say something like this, Herman and
Candelaria are from Argentina. They travel around
Say the numbers in the Word Bank with students.
the world with their family. Maybe in this photo . . .
Also, look at the information note and point out
how we say years. Put other examples on the
board and say them with the class. These can
D Listen for details. Read sentences 1–5. Then
be individual numbers, equations (15 + 25 = ?),
listen. Are the underlined words correct? If not,
patterns (5, 10, 15, ?), or years (2012, 1998).
change them. 48 10 min
Then each student should write five different
In this exercise, students are “fact checking.”
numbers between 10 and 100 and show these to
Their goal is to determine if the underlined
their partner, who should say them aloud. Model
information in a statement is true or false. To do
this for the class. Note: Following this Listening
this, they must listen for specific information.
exercise, students will get more practice with
numbers. For now, just introduce this vocabulary
Tell students to read items 1–5. If the underlined
so that students understand the numbers and
words in a sentence are correct, students don’t
year used in the audio.
have to do anything. If they aren’t correct,
students should cross them out, and write the
correct word(s). Model this for the class: Play
B Predict. Look at the photo below. Answer the
the audio and stop it after the narrator says,
questions. 5 min
When the family is traveling—which is often—the
Look at the photo and read the caption aloud.
children don’t go to a regular school. Instead,
Tell students that Herman (on the left) is the
they study with their parents. Then look at item 1
father; Candelaria (on the right) is the mother.
with the class. Ask, Do the children study with
Discuss the two questions with the class, adding
a teacher online? (Answer: No, they study with
others—e.g., Where is this family going (do you
their parents.) Students should draw a line
think)? Is their car old or new?
through a teacher online and write their parents.

Predict. Making predictions before listening
Now play the audio once. Tell students to listen
prepares students to understand more of what
and notice if a sentence is correct. If it’s not, tell
they will hear. In B, students use the photo to
students to circle the sentence number. Then
make guesses about the content of the listening.
play the audio a second time. For sentences
In C, they preview sentences and make guesses
students circled (as incorrect), tell them to write
about what kind of information they will need to
the correct answers. Check answers as a class.
listen for.
Listen for details. When we listen for details,
we listen closely for specific information.
C Read sentences 1–5. Then listen. Write the
Sometimes, this information comes at the listener
correct answer. 47 15–20 min
very quickly. When this happens, tell students
Tell students to read items 1–5. Get them to
not to panic. It’s actually good practice for the
notice what kind of information each sentence
real world, where people say things quickly. Tell
is asking for. For example, sentence one says
students to think about the details they did catch
Herman and Candelaria are from . . .. In this
as they were listening. Then tell them to listen
case, the missing information that students need
again and, if necessary, to pause the audio or
© National Geographic Learning
to listen for is probably a country name. They
reduce the speed.
can keep that in mind when they listen. As you
walk through the sentences, you may also want
E What do you think of this family’s life? Is it easy?
to preview this language from item 4:
interesting? good for the children? Why? Tell a
• is ___ years old (My phone is three years old.)
partner. 10 min
Students will learn more about this on the
Have students work in pairs to discuss the
Speaking page.
questions. Encourage them to explain their
• goes ___ kilometers per hour (That car is going
answers using information from B and C. Take
100 kilometers per hour.)
ideas from the class.

77a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 6 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 161 ────────

LISTENING

A Practice the numbers.
WORD BANK: NUMBERS
1. Say the numbers with your teacher.
thirty
30
twenty
20
ten
10
forty
40
twenty-one
21
eleven
11
2. Then think of five different numbers between
fifty
50
twenty-two
22
twelve
12
10 and 100. Write them in your notebook.
sixty
60
twenty-three
23
thirteen
13
Show a partner. He or she says the
seventy
70
twenty-four
24
fourteen
14
numbers.
eighty
80
twenty-five
25
fifteen
15
ninety
90
twenty-six
26
sixteen
16
B Look at the photo below. Answer the questions.
one
100
twenty-seven
27
seventeen
17
1. How many children are in this family?
hundred
twenty-eight
28
eighteen
18
twenty-nine
29
nineteen
19
2. What is the family doing?

i Saying a year
C Read sentences 1–5. Then listen. Write the correct answer. 47
2021 twenty twenty-one
1. Herman and Candelaria are from .
Argentina    1997 nineteen ninety-seven
the world
2. The family travels together around .
1928
3. They go from place to place in a car from .
90
4. The car is over years old.
65
It goes kilometers per hour.
100
5. In this car, the family visits different countries . . . so far.

D Listen for details. Read sentences 1–5. Then listen. Are the underlined words correct?
If not, change them. 48
their parents
1. The children study with a teacher online.
2. They read and write, do math, and learn languages.
correct
go and see
3. The children look at photos of famous places.
father
4. Sometimes, the family stays with Herman’s mother in the US.
5. The family has friends around the world.
correct

E What do you think of this family’s life? Is it easy? interesting? good for the children?
Why? Tell a partner.

Herman and Candelaria
Zapp with their children

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson A | 77

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 7 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 162 ────────

SPEAKING

A Read and listen to the conversation.
Then answer the questions. 49

1. What family members does Beth
Beth talks about her grandmother
talk about?
(she’s 85) and her younger sister (she’s 18).
2. How old are they?

Carlos: Is someone texting you?

Beth: Yeah, my mom. Look. It’s
a family photo from my
grandmother’s birthday party.

Carlos: Nice. Is this your grandma?

Beth: Yeah. She’s 85!

Carlos: That’s amazing. And who’s
this?

Beth: My younger sister, Sonia.

Carlos: You look alike. How old is she?

Beth: Eighteen. I’m 22.

WORD BANK
A teenager and
grandma (informal) = grandmother
her grandmother
older younger (brother, sister)
look alike = look the same

B Practice the conversation in A with a partner.

C Practice again. This time, imagine Beth is talking about these
people: her 80-year-old grandfather and her 19-year-old
cousin, Gina.
SPEAKING STRATEGY 50
Talking about age
D Find a family photo on your phone. Tell your partner about the
How old is your sister?
people in the photo. Your partner will ask questions from the
(She’s) 18.
Speaking Strategy box.
How old are you?
(I’m) 22.
This is me and my cousin
Are you the same age?
at Tokyo Disneyland.
Yes, we’re both 20.
Great photo. Are you the
same age?
No, he’s older. He’s 24.
No, he’s younger. He’s 18.
No, my cousin is older. He’s . . .© National Geographic Learning
E Repeat D with two different partners.

These are my grandparents
in 2020. Nice photo. How old are
they now?
They’re . . .

78 | UNIT 6

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 8 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 163 ────────

CULTURE TIP: Asking about age
SPEAKING
In English, How old are you? can be a sensitive
WARM-UP 5–10 min
question when asked directly—especially with
people you don’t know well or who are older—
Before you begin, you may want to give students
unless the speaker has a good reason for wanting
some additional practice with the numbers they
to know. To ask politely about a person’s age, teach
learned on the Listening page (page 77). One fun
students that they can ask, May I ask, how old are
and easy way to do this is to play a game of Bingo
you? However, asking a person about someone
with numbers. For more information on playing this
else's age (as Carlos does about Beth’s sister in the
game, see page 4a.
conversation) is fine, and the question How old is
After you’ve reviewed numbers, have students
she? can be asked directly.
cover the conversation and look only at the photo.
Say, These two women are family members. How
are they related? Are they mother and daughter?
B Practice the conversation in A with a partner.
sisters? (When you are related to someone, you are
5 min
connected to the person as a family member.) Take
Have students work in pairs to practice the
ideas from the class, and write them on the board.
conversation. After they’ve done it once, have
Then write on the board, How old are you? Explain
them switch roles and practice again.
to the class that this is the question we use to ask
about a person’s age. To answer, we say I’m . . .
C Practice again. This time, imagine Beth is talking
(e.g., I’m 21). Then write on the board, How old
about these people: her 80-year-old grandfather
is she? She’s ____. Tell students to look at the two
and her 19-year-old cousin, Gina. 5 min
people in the photo and complete the sentence on
Have students work in pairs to practice the
the board by calling out an age for each person.
conversation again, this time substituting the
Write ideas on the board.
language in the direction line in the conversation.

A Read and listen to the conversation. Then answer
D Find a family photo on your phone. Tell your
the questions. 49 10 min
partner about the people in the photo. Your
Play the audio and have students read along.
partner will ask questions from the Speaking
At the end, go over the meaning of the words
Strategy box. 10 min
in the Word Bank. Then have students answer
Find a family photo on your phone, and tell the
the questions with a partner. Tell them to
class who’s in it with you, using the language in
underline their answers in the conversation,
the model: This is me and . . . . We’re in / at . . . .
and to compare their ideas with those the class
Tell the class to ask you a question about the
brainstormed on the board. Check answers as
person (or people) in the photo with you using
a class.
the Speaking Strategy expressions. Tell them
they can ask one more follow-up question, too
LANGUAGE TIP: Grandparents’ nicknames
(e.g., In the photo, where are you? What are their
names? What year is it?). Then have students
In many countries, people call their grandparents
work in pairs to do the same.
by nicknames. In English-speaking countries,
people often use a shortened form of the words
grandmother and grandfather—i.e., grandma or
E Repeat D with two different partners. 15–20 min
grandmom and grandpa or granddad. Other people
Have students repeat D with two different
call their grandmother nana and their grandfather
people. At the end, call on volunteers to talk
papa. If a person’s grandparents come from
about the photos they saw. They might say
another country, a grandchild might use the terms
things like: Amir has a cousin. His name is . . .
for grandmother and grandfather from that culture.
He’s 20. He’s a student at . . .
Ask students about the traditions in their country.
© National Geographic Learning
EXPANSION 5–10 min
SPEAKING STRATEGY 50
For more practice talking about age, go back
Have students look at the Speaking Strategy
through Lesson A and look at different people.
expressions. Remind them again how to ask
Tell students to use the Speaking Strategy to ask
about a person’s age, which you introduced in the
questions about their age. Model one example by
Warm-Up. Play the audio and have students listen.
looking at Ana and Celia in Sofia’s family tree and
Then say the expressions and replies with the class.
asking: How old is she? (Maybe) she’s 18. Are they
Also, go over the meanings of younger and older,
the same age? Yes, they are. / No, they’re not. Ana
using the example to illustrate their meanings.
is older.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson A | 78a

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 9 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 164 ────────

B PRONUNCIATION: Possessive ’s Listen and
GRAMMAR
repeat. Then practice saying the phrases with a
partner. 51 10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Play the audio twice and have students listen
Write these sentences on the board:
and repeat. Then have them practice with their
1. Beth’s grandmother is 85.
partner.
2. Her grandmother is 85.
LANGUAGE TIP: Pronunciation of possessive ’s
Tell students they mean the same thing. Ask what
Depending on the last sound of the noun, the ’s is
they notice about item 1. (We add apostrophe + s to
pronounced /z/, /s/, or / z/.
the name.)

• /z/ after voiced consonants (/b/, /d/, /g/, /l/, /m/,
A Read the Unit 6, Lesson A Grammar Reference
/n/, /r/, th – /ð/, /v/, /w/): sister’s
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below. 30 min
• /z/ after vowel sounds: Sofia’s, boy’s
Tell students to turn to the Grammar Reference
• /s/ after voiceless sounds (/f/, /k/, /p/, /t/, th – /θ/:
in the appendix. Then write or project these
wife’s, Beth’s, parents’
sentences on the board:
• / z/ after ch – /te/, sh – /e/, /s/, /d /, /z/, / /, and the
1. Beth’s grandmother is 85.
letter x: Carlos’s, Gomez’s
Her . . .

2. My sister’s name is Sonia.
C Look at the family tree on page 76. Then
Her name . . .
complete the task. 15 min
3. Her sisters’ names are Sonia and Nadia.
Remind students about Sofia’s family on
Their names . . .
page 76. Then have students complete the
questions in C with the possessive of the word
4. Carlos’ family is from Peru.
in parentheses, as shown in the example in
His family . . .
item 1. Then have students ask and answer
Say the sentences in bold with the class. Call
the questions with a partner. Circulate, paying
attention to the final sound(s) of the underlined
attention to students’ use of the possessive and
words. Adding this sound to a name or noun
their pronunciation.
is how we show possession in English (see
Language Tip). In writing, we add apostrophe +
D With a partner, research a famous person’s family.
s (’s) or just an apostrophe (’).
It can be a real or fictional family. 20 min
Then ask students about a family member. For
In pairs, students should think of a famous
example, How old is your grandmother? Write
family. It can be a real family or a fictional one
answers on the board (e.g., Mario’s grandmother
(from a TV show, movie series, anime, etc.). Ask
is 66.). Say the sentences with the class. Do
students to draw the family tree and prepare
the same thing with the second sentence. Say,
a short talk about the family members: Who
My sister’s name is Sonia. What is your sister’s
are they? How are they related? How are the
name? Write students’ answers on the board and
relationships among family members—good or
say them with the class. Point out that the third
bad? Look at the model about Se-ri’s family.
example sentence (Her sisters’ names . . .) is
Also, ask each pair to prepare a simple fourabout two people. Ask a student, What are your
question quiz about the family. Model this for
parents’ names? Write the answer on the board
the class, using the example below E. Circulate,
and say it with the class. Draw students’ attention
helping students with vocabulary and grammar.
to the spelling rules with the possessive. Finally,
have students do the exercises in the Grammar
© National Geographic Learning
Reference.
E Get together with another pair. Talk about your
family in D. At the end, ask the other pair four
After students complete the exercises in the
questions. What do they remember? 15–30 min
appendix, have them check answers with
a partner. Then check answers as a class.
Have each pair get together with another and
Alternatively, you may wish to assign the
give a short talk about their family. (Each person
exercises in the appendix for homework. Then,
in the pair should take turns talking.) At the
during the next class, put students into pairs
end, they should ask the other pair their four
or small groups and have them check their
questions. The other pair should answer. How
answers.
many do they get correct?

79a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 10 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 165 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 6, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete
the exercises. Then do the exercises below.

POSSESSIVE NOUNS
Singular nouns Beth’s grandmother is 85.
Plural nouns Her sisters’ names are Sonia and Nadia.
Irregular plural nouns The men’s names are Carlos and Andres.
Names ending in -s Carlos’s / Carlos’ family is from Peru.

B PRONUNCIATION: Possessive ’s Listen and repeat. Then practice
saying the phrases with a partner. 51
WORD BANK
daughter
my sister’s son    Beth’s grandmother    Carlos’s family
son
the boy’s name    my parents’ names    Mr. Gomez’s children

C Look at the family tree on page 76. Then complete the task.
1. Complete the questions below with the possessive.
2. Write your own question about the person.
1. Daniel, 2. Ana, 3. Rosa and
3. Ask and answer the questions with a partner. Use the possessive in
David, 5. Rosa, 6. Ana and Sofia,
your answers.
7. Celia

Questions about Sofia Questions about David
wife’s
1. What is her (brother) brother’s    name? 5. What is his (wife) name?
sister’s    daughters’
2. What is her (sister) name? 6. What are his (daughters) names?
parents’    niece’s
3. What are her (parents) names? 7. What is his (niece) name?
4. Your question: 8. Your question:

D With a partner, research a famous person’s family. It can be a real or
WORD BANK
fictional family.
stepmother
1. Draw the person’s family tree.
2. Talk about the family. Who are the people? Use the possessive.

A: We’re talking about the family in a Korean TV show . . . Se-ri is the
main character.

B: This is Se-ri’s father. He loves his daughter. But Se-ri’s stepmother . . .

E Get together with another pair. Talk about your family in D. At the end, ask
the other pair four questions. What do they remember?
© National Geographic Learning
What are her older brothers’ names?

Lesson A | 79

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 11 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 166 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Work with a partner.
Student A: Turn to page 213.
Student B: Work on your own. Read 1–10 below. Write the answers.

Questions to ask your partner
In English, what’s the word for your . . .
grandmother
1. mother’s mother?
aunt
2. father’s sister?
cousin
3. uncle’s son?
daughter
WORD BANK
4. own female child?
+ plus
Do the math.
− minus
30 (thirty)
5. What is 15 + 15?
oldest
59 (fifty-nine)
6. What is 37 + 22?
youngest
75 (seventy-five)
7. What is 100 – 25?
13 (thirteen)
8. What is 80 – 67?

Talk about your family.

9. Who is the oldest person in your family? How old is the person?
Answers will vary.
10. Who is your favorite family member? What is the person’s name
Answers will vary.
and how old is he or she?

B Work with your partner. To do this exercise, you need a timer.
Follow the steps. If you don’t know an answer, say pass.

1. One person goes first. Start the timer.
Student B (Questions
2. Ask your partner your questions in A (1–10). Your partner answers
asked to Student A)
quickly. Check (✓) the answers your partner says correctly.
1. grandfather
3. At the end, write your partner’s total time and the number of correct
2. uncle
answers.
3. son
4. grandparents
4. Change roles and repeat steps 2 and 3.
5. 50 (fifty)
6. 75 (seventy-five)
C Compare your scores. Who did better: you or your partner?
7. 89 (eighty-nine)
8. 41 (forty-one)
D On your own, create your own quiz of 10 items (like the one in A).
9. Answers will vary.
10. Answers will vary.
E Work with your partner again. Repeat B and C.
© National Geographic Learning
6A GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Identify family members
2. Mostly, yes.
Say numbers and talk about age
3. Not yet.

80 | UNIT 6

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 12 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 167 ────────

C Compare your scores. Who did better: you or your
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
partner? 5–10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Have student pairs compare their scores. How
did they do? Which items were easy? Were any
To preview what students are going to do in this
hard? Have pairs share their results with the class.
exercise, write these two questions on the board: In
English, what’s the word for your mom’s brother? Do
the math: 23 + 25 = ?
D On your own, create your own quiz of 10 items
(like the one in A). 10–15 min
Take answers from students for the first question.
Tell them you’re looking for the word they learned in
Students should work alone to create a quiz
this unit. (Answer: uncle) Point out that your dad’s
of their own that is similar to the one they just
brother is also your uncle. Then ask a student to
completed. Another option: Put students in small
read the math question on the board aloud. Point
groups of As and Bs. Have them brainstorm
out the words plus and minus in the Word Bank.
ideas together and check answers.
Elicit the answer from the class (forty-eight).

E Work with your partner again. Repeat B and C.
A Work with a partner. 10–15 min
20–25 min
Have students do the following in pairs:
Have students work in pairs again, with a
• Each student should first work alone, looking
Student A joining a Student B. Have them follow
at their respective quiz. (Student A’s quiz
the same steps they did in B and C.
will be different from Student B’s.) For 1–8,
Diagnostics
students should write the answers. Students
should not show their partner their questions.
Check students’ competencies as follows:
• Can they identify and talk about family members?
• For 9 and 10, students should read the
questions and make sure they understand
• Can they say numbers between 11 and 100?
them. Go over the meaning of oldest and
• Can they ask and answer questions about age?
youngest with the class.
• Can they use the possessive (’s) form correctly?

B Work with your partner. To do this exercise, you
need a timer. Follow the steps. If you don’t know
GOALS
6A
an answer, say pass. 15 min
Review students’ self-assessment in the
Tell pairs to work together again. Each pair will
goals box. Point out to students where in the
need a timer (e.g., on their phone). Model what
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
to do with a student volunteer.
they can review those exercises to improve
1. Student A goes first. He or she should start
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
the timer and then ask questions 1–10 in their
Identify family members: Warm-Up video,
quiz. Student B should answer A’s questions
page 74; Vocabulary, page 76, A–E;
as quickly as possible.
Listening, page 77, B–E; Speaking,
page 78, A–E; Grammar, page 79, A–E;
2. Each time Student B answers a question
Active English, page 80, A and B.
correctly, Student A should put a check next
to that number. If Student B doesn’t know
Say numbers and talk about age:
an answer, he or she can say pass, and
Warm-Up video, page 74; Listening,
Student A should go on to the next question.
page 77, A and C; Speaking, page 78, A–E;
For questions 9 and 10, Student A should
Active English, page 80, A and B.
note what Student B says.

3. At the end, Student A should stop the timer
and note the total time it took for Student B
© National Geographic Learning
to answer questions 1–10 and the number
of correct answers. Student A should also
check Student B’s answers to questions 9 and
10. Do they make sense? Is the vocabulary
correct? If yes, Student A should give
Student B a point for each.

4. Then the pair should change roles. Now
Student B should ask Student A the questions.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson A | 80a

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 13 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 168 ────────

B Read the information above. Answer the
6B LOVE AND MARRIAGE
questions with a partner. 10–15 min
Tell students to look at the infographic and give
VOCABULARY
them a minute to read it. Take questions from the
class about any unfamiliar vocabulary. Then ask
WARM-UP 10 min
the class what the infographic is about: What is
In Lesson A, students talked about family
it showing? (Answer: It’s showing how couples in
relationships. In Lesson B, the focus shifts to
the United States meet. It’s showing six popular
personal (romantic) relationships. To get students
ways.)
thinking about this, tell them to read the title of this
lesson (Love and Marriage). Write the words on
Next, tell students to discuss the three questions
the board and translate them into students’ native
with a partner. Check answers as a class. Take
language or tell them to look the words up in a
ideas from different pairs about the answer to
dictionary.
question three.

Then ask, When you hear these words (love, marriage),
what other words do you think of? To get started, write
C Complete the chart. Write about yourself and two
husband on the board (which students learned in
people you know. Then share your answers with a
Lesson A). Encourage students to call out other words
partner. Are these people similar to people in the
related to the topic of love and marriage. Tell them to
US? 20 min
use their dictionaries if necessary. Write all ideas on the
Tell students to complete the chart with
board. (Note: For more on pre-teaching thematically
information about themselves and two people
related vocabulary, see page 53a in Unit 4 on using
they know. If they prefer not to write about
a word web.) Possible words students might say:
themselves, they can make notes about three
husband, wife, boyfriend, girlfriend, date, marry / get
people they know. Students can write about
married, wedding. Other words will be introduced on
family members, friends, or famous people.
this page and in this lesson.
Model one idea on the board—for example, My
sister is 24 and she’s seeing someone. My sister
and her boyfriend met at school. When you do
A Say the words in the Word Bank with your
this, review the meaning of meet with students.
teacher, and talk about their meanings. 10 min
Explain that met is the simple past form.
Say the words in blue in the Word Bank with the
class. As you do, go over the meanings, some of
Give students a few minutes to complete their
which students will know, either from Lesson A
chart. Then have them tell a partner about their
or because you wrote them on the board in the
three people. They can use the model you wrote
Warm-Up. To ensure that students understand
on the board to help them make their sentences.
the meaning of the words, write sentences like
Also write on the board: Are the people in your
these on the board and have students say if they
chart similar to people in the US? How? Tell
are true or false. If they are false, tell them to
students to think about this question at the end.
change the sentences:
Take ideas from different pairs. Wrap up by
1. When you are single, you have a husband or
going over any errors that came up during this
wife. (False. When you are married . . .)
vocabulary lesson.
2. When you are seeing someone, you have a
NOTES
boyfriend or girlfriend. (True)

Make sure that students also understand the
meaning of couple. For additional practice
with the words, ask students to tell you about a
famous couple. Are they married or just seeing
each other? If they’re married, what is the wife’s
name? the husband’s? If they are dating, what is
© National Geographic Learning
the boyfriend’s name? and so on.

CULTURE TIP: Asking about a person’s
relationship status

Are you married? and Are you seeing someone?
can be sensitive questions, depending on the
context. In certain situations, if a person asks these
questions, it can carry the implication that he or she
is interested in having a romantic relationship.

81a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 14 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 169 ────────

6B LOVE AND MARRIAGE

VOCABULARY

WORD BANK
Relationships in the US
I’m    single.
He’s    married.
Single, married, or seeing someone?
She’s seeing someone.
Over 50% of Americans between ages 18 and 34 are single.
husband’s
They are not married or seeing someone.
My
wife’s    name
His
boyfriend’s    is . . .
How do couples meet in the US?
Her
girlfriend’s

A couple is two people. They are
1. ONLINE
married or seeing each other.

2. AT A RESTAURANT, CAFE,
OR SIMILAR PLACE

3. THROUGH FRIENDS

4. AT WORK

5. AT SCHOOL

6. THROUGH FAMILY

A Say the words in the Word Bank with your teacher, and talk about their meanings.

B Read the information above. Answer the questions with a partner.
No, they aren’t. They’re single.
1. Are most people between 18 and 34 seeing someone?
2. What are the top three ways people in the US meet others?
In my country, most
Online; at a restaurant, cafe, or similar place; through friends
people meet . . .
3. Are these things true in your country?

© National Geographic Learning
C Complete the chart. Write about yourself and two people you know.
Then share your answers with a partner. Are these people similar to
people in the US?

present past
Single, married, or
Person Age They met . . .
meet ➔ met
seeing someone?
1.
2.
3.

Lesson B | 81

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 15 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 170 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 10 min
Introduce the word wedding
and get students to think about
TIME TO GET
different wedding traditions in
their country. What happens
at a wedding? Do people take
photos? Give gifts? Are weddings
MARRIED?
expensive? Take ideas from
the class.

A Read the sentences in the box
below. Then tell a partner: In
your opinion, is there a good
age to get married (25, 30,
35)? Explain. 5 min
Go over the sentences in the
box. Students have learned to
use married as an adjective.
Point out that when we
describe the action, we often
use get: Many people get
married every year.

Then take a quick class poll.
Ask, What’s a good age to get
married? Write on the board:
25, 30, 35, older? younger?
Point to each answer on the
Song Zongpei1 lives in Beijing, China. Her life
stay single. They don’t want to get married now
board and have students
and her mother’s are very different. At 28,
or in the future. Others are waiting until their
raise their hands, or use a live
Ms. Song’s mother was2 married with a child.
thirties4 to get married.
poll to query the class (see
Today, Ms. Song is 28. She’s got a job and lives
Some parents don’t like these changes. They
in her own apartment with two roommates.
Teaching Tip). Which answers
want their children to find someone and get
She’s also single, and—as she told The New
are popular? Take reasons
married by age 28 or 29. This is the way to a
York Times—she has no plans to get married
from a few students.
happy life, the parents say. But more single
soon or have a family.
people don’t agree with this idea. They’re happy
Ms. Song isn’t alone. Today in China, fewer3
now. Married life, they say, can wait. 52
TEACHING TIP: Using live polls
people are getting married, especially in
1Song is the woman’s family name. In China, a person’s
big cities. One recent study, for example,
Taking a quick class poll is a
family name comes first.
interviewed a large group of people in
2Was is the past form of is.
fun and easy way to brainstorm
3Fewer means a smaller number of something.
Shanghai. Almost 10% say they are planning to
4thirties: ages 30–39
ideas, preview language, and
respond to open-ended prompts
82 | UNIT 6
(like the one in B). Teachers can,
of course, take a show of hands
to poll students. For a more
interactive experience, consider
B Skim for the gist. Look at the
is up, read the sentence under
using a web-based polling tool
photo and read the caption and
B’s direction line aloud and poll
(like the app Poll Everywhere)
the title of the article. Guess:
the class: who chose answer
or the polling feature on the
What is the reading’s main
a, b, c? Ask students to explain
© National Geographic Learning
videoconference software you
idea? Circle the best answer.
what helped them choose their
use. Using web-based polling
10 min
answer.
tools can be an effective means
Ask students to read the
Skim for the gist. When we
of getting more people involved
sentence under B’s direction
read for the gist, we look at a
in a discussion, especially in
line. Tell them they want to
text very quickly to get an idea
large classes. And since polling
know the answer quickly. Model
of what it is mainly about. One
content is archived, teachers
how, using the instructions
way to get the gist is to look at
and students can return to it
in the directions. Then tell
photos, and to read captions,
for review.
students they have one minute
the title, and the first and last
to find the answer. When time
sentence of each paragraph.

82 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 16 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 171 ────────

w

CULTURE TIP: Weddings in
China
A Read the sentences in the box below.
In China, a wedding is an
Then tell a partner: In your opinion, is
important event, and many
there a good age to get married (25, 30,
families spend more than a typical
35)? Explain.
annual income on one. In addition
(adjective) He is married.
to the wedding ceremony itself,
(verb) Many people get married every year.
a large banquet is usually held in
the evening. Prior to the wedding,
B Skim for the gist. Look at the photo and
read the caption and the title of the article.
many couples also have photos
Guess: What is the reading’s main idea?
taken. In recent years, studio
Circle the best answer.
photo shoots have exploded in
These days in China, more people .
popularity. Couples (like the one
a. don’t have money to get married
pictured) pose against different
b. are staying single
thematic backgrounds. Some
c. are not happy with their wife or husband
people spend between $400 and
$18,000 per session.
C Read the article to check your answer in B.

D Read sentences 1–7. Circle T for true or
F for false. Correct the false sentences so
C Read the article to check your
they are true.
answer in B. 5 min
1. At 28, Ms. Song’s mother T F
Have students read the
was single.
She was married.
passage to check their answer
2. Today, Ms. Song, 28, T F
lives with her parents.
in B. Check answers as a class.
She lives in her own apartment.
3. Ms. Song is seeing T F
someone.
She’s single.
D Scan for details. Read
4. She doesn’t plan to get T F
married soon.
sentences 1–7. Circle T for true
5. There are more single T F
or F for false. Correct the false
people in big cities in China.
sentences so they are true.
6. In cities, more people are T F
10 min
getting married at age 28.
Many are getting married in their thirties.
In this exercise, students need
7. Many single people T F
in China are not happy.
to find specific information.
They are happy.
Tell students to read the
E Answer the questions. Compare your ideas
statements and think about
with a partner’s.
the information they need.
1. Look at your answer in B. In your opinion,
Since they've read the article
why is this happening? Think of one or
two reasons.
once already, they can quickly
2. Read the last paragraph again. What do
scan the reading here for the
some parents want and why? Do you
information they need.
A couple in China takes wedding    agree with these parents? Why or why
photos. But in this country, fewer    not?
Look at item 1 with the class.
people are getting married these days.
Is it true or false? Tell students
to look very quickly at the first
Lesson B | 83
paragraph to find the answer.
To help, students can scan for
key words: 28, mother, single
(or married). Take answers
E Answer the questions.
Scan for details. When we
from the class. Ask students to
Compare your ideas with a
scan for information, we look
tell you what information in the
partner's. 20 min
at a text quickly to find key
reading helped them choose
details. Before reading, it helps
Have students discuss the
their answer. Then have
to think about the information© National Geographic Learning
questions. For question 1,
students complete 2–7. Time
we need. Then we can look
answers aren’t given in the
students as they do this so that
quickly at a text to find and
passage. Students have to
they have to go through the
underline it.
think about why more people
text quickly. Check answers as
are staying single. In reply to
a class.
question 2, students will be
giving their opinions. Again, this
is a chance to poll the class to
explore what most people think.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson B | 83

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 17 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 172 ────────

LISTENING

A Look at the graph. What does it show? Tell a partner.
It shows the age of marriage for women and men in
different countries today.

The Age People Get Married
38 33 or
40
35
31 or    34
32
Women

28
30    Men
25

Age20

10

The UK Turkey Chile My country
Country

WORD BANK
Listen for details. Listen to the first part of an interview.
B in (your) twenties
53
Write the ages above the bars in A. = ages 20–29

C Listen again. Complete the sentence with the
best answer. 53

In some countries, people are getting
married .

a. younger

b. later

c. more than one time

D Listen to the rest of the interview. Write a word
in each blank. 54

Reasons for the change
women
1. More people—especially —
college
are going to .
jobs
2. Men and women have got .
school
They are thinking about
work
and , not about getting
married.

© National Geographic Learning
E Answer the questions with a partner.
1. Is your country similar to the countries in the
chart? Look online and add the ages.

2. Look at your answers in D. Are these things
true in your country? Give examples.

This couple married after
seven years together.

84 | UNIT 6

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 18 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 173 ────────

C Listen again. Complete the sentence with the
LISTENING
best answer. 53 10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Tell students to read the sentence. Which answer
(a, b, or c) do they think is correct? Tell them to
Have students look at the photo and read the
look at the information in the chart and guess.
caption. Ask, Who are the people? What are they
Then tell them to listen again, this time with the
doing (do you think)? Are they married? When
goal of completing the sentence in C. Remind
did they meet? (To help students answer this last
them (as they learned in earlier units) that a
question, write on the board: They met years
speaker doesn’t always come right out and say
ago.)
something directly. Sometimes, we have to think
about what the person is saying and form our
A Predict. Look at the graph. What does it show?
own idea.
Tell a partner. 5 min
Play the audio a second time, if needed. Then
Have students look at the bar graph and talk
take answers from the class. Ask students what
about what it shows with a partner. Make sure
information helped them choose their answer.
that students know the countries in the graph;
(Possible answers: The speaker said people are
if not, explain where they are or have students
waiting to get married; people are getting married
use their phones to find the information. Call
after age 30; that’s older than in the past)
on individual students to share what they think
the graph is showing. (Answer: It’s showing the
D Listen to the rest of the interview. Write a word in
age men and women get married in different
each blank. 54 15 min
countries.)
Before continuing, have students use the chart
Predict. Charts and graphs include important
and their answer in C to summarize what they’ve
details that will appear in a talk. If a graph
learned so far. Take ideas from the class, and
or chart is provided, tell students to study it
write a short summary on the board—e.g.,
before listening and to ask themselves: what
People are getting married later—usually after
is it showing? Encourage students to try to
age 30 or older. This is happening in many
summarize their ideas in a sentence or two. This
countries. Then ask, Why is this happening?
helps build knowledge and prepares students
Tell students to look at the reasons in D. Can
to listen and understand more of what they will
they guess any of the answers? Then tell them
hear.
to listen to the rest of the interview. Play the
audio and ask students to write the words they
B Listen for details. Listen to the first part of an
hear. Then play the audio a second time. Check
interview. Write the ages above the bars in A.
answers with the class.
53 10–15 min
In classes that need more support, write or
Tell students they will hear an interview. In it,
project answer choices on the board for students
the speaker talks about the ages that men and
to complete the sentences with: college, fun,
women get married in different countries, which
jobs, kids, school, men, women, work. Tell them
you discussed in A.
that three of these words are extra.
Look again at the chart, specifically at the first
answer given for women in the UK. Ask, How old
E Answer the questions with a partner. 5–10 min
are the women? (Answer: 35) Then tell students
For question 1, have students say what they
to look at the other bars. Can they guess any of
think the average ages for men and women to
the answers? Tell them to use the numbers (10,
get married are in their country, or have them
20, 30, 40) running along the vertical axis. Take
research the ages online. Have students add
ideas from the class. Then tell students to listen
their ideas to the graph and explain which
and check their ideas. Play the audio a second
countries in the chart their country is similar to
time if needed.
© National Geographic Learning
(if any). Call on one pair to write their information
on the board and explain it. Ask the class if
Listen for details. The purpose of listening for
they agree.
details is to see if students can grasp specific
information. Can they sift through everything and
For question 2, tell students to reread the two
pull out only the relevant information?
sentences in D. Are these things true in their
country? Take ideas from the class. Finish by
asking students what they think of the trend
discussed in the talk.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson B | 84a

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 19 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 174 ────────

LANGUAGE TIP: have got
GRAMMAR
American versus British English: In statements,
WARM-UP 10 min
have and have got are used in both American and
British English—e.g., I have a big family. / I’ve got a
Tell students to look at the photo. Ask them what
big family.
they see. (twin sisters) Ask, Do you know any twins?
Then write these sentences on the board and say
An important difference between American
them aloud with the class.
and British usage of have / has got is with the
interrogative and negative forms:
1. She has a twin sister.
Have you got a sister? (BE) I haven’t got a sister. (BE)
2. She has got a twin sister. ➔ She’s got a twin sister.
Do you have a sister? (AE) I don’t have a sister. (AE)
Point out to students that these sentences all mean
This grammar presentation focuses only on
the same thing. Then ask what’s different about the
statements with have / have got. To keep things
sentences. (Answer: In sentence 2, you can use got
simple, it’s best at this level to avoid question and
after has.) For sentence 2, point out that in everyday
negative forms.
speech, people use the contracted form. Then write
these sentences on the board. Ask students how to
Pronunciation: In everyday rapid speech, have /
complete sentence 2.
has got a . . . is often pronounced this way (note
the use of gotta): I’ve gotta big family. She’s gotta
1. I have a brother.
brother. Students don’t have to speak this way, but
2. I a brother. (Answer: I have got . . . /
they should be aware they might hear it. Make sure
I’ve got . . .)
students know we don’t write gotta.

A Read the Unit 6, Lesson B Grammar Reference
B Circle the things in the box that you have. Then
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
compare answers with a partner. 15 min
the exercises below. 20–25 min
Review the list with students, making sure that
Tell students to turn to the Grammar Reference
they understand what all of the items are. After
in the appendix and look at the chart. On the
they have circled their answers, read through
board, write has / have = has got / have got.
the model conversation with them. Then assign
Remind students that in many cases, we can
students to a partner to discuss their answers.
use either have / has or have got / has got. They
Remind them to use have got and encourage
mean the same thing.
them to explain their answers and ask questions.
Say different sentences in the chart aloud with
students (I’ve got a big family. They’ve got a lot
C Which things do you and your partner both have?
of free time. He’s got a good job.). Again, remind
Tell another pair. 10 min
students that in everyday speech, people use
Have pairs join to make groups of four. Model the
the contracted form. Then tell students to take
example, pointing out the use of the word both.
turns with a partner making different sentences
Have the pairs tell each other what they have in
using the words at the top of chart (e.g., I’ve
common with their partner. Then ask students to
got a big family. He’s got . . .). Tell them to pay
tell the class about any interesting or surprising
attention to their pronunciation. Circulate, paying
things they had in common with each other.
attention to sentences where students struggle.
Say those sentences aloud with the class.
LANGUAGE TIP: Using both
After students have practiced, point out the
We use both to emphasize that something is true
exception to the rule: We only use have (not
for two people or things. Note the position of both in
have got) in these cases:
sentences with have and have got.
I have breakfast in the morning. (I’ve got
We both have a sister.
breakfast . . .)
© National Geographic Learning
I have fun with my friends. (I’ve got fun . . .)
We’ve both got a sister.

Finally, have students do the exercises in the
Grammar Reference. When they’re done, have
D Which things does everyone in your group have?
them check answers with a partner. Then check
Tell the class. 5 min
answers as a class.
Model the example and explain to students that
they need to identify what all four of them have
Alternatively, you may wish to assign the
in common. Give them a few minutes to discuss
exercises in the appendix for homework. Then,
it with their group. Then take ideas from different
during the next class, put students into pairs or
groups.
small groups and have them check their answers.

85a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 20 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 175 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 6, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
exercises. Then do the exercises below.

HAVE GOT

I’ve / You’ve / We’ve / They’ve    a good job.
a nice apartment I’ve got = I have got
got
He’s / She’s    a big family.    He’s got = He has got
a lot of free time.

B Circle the things in the box that you have. Then compare answers with a partner.

a boyfriend or girlfriend a cousin a pet    i You can use have
got or have. They mean
a brother or sister a hobby a phone    the same thing.
a college degree a job a small family

A: Do you have a brother?
B: No, I don’t. I’ve got a sister.
A: Oh? How old is she?
B: 19. We’re twins! What about you?
A: I’ve got a sister, too, but she’s younger.

We’ve both got sisters. Lena’s
C Which things do you and your partner both have? Tell another pair.
sister is 19. My sister is 18.

We’ve all got sisters but they’re
D Which things does everyone in your group have? Tell the class.
different ages.

Are there any twins
in your class?

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 85

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 21 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 176 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Review the survey with the class. Then work on your own. Choose your answers.

What’s important to you in a partner?*
1. He’s got / She’s got . . . (Choose three.)
2. He / She is . . .
a college degree.
older. the same age. younger.
a lot of money.
A person’s age isn’t important to me.
the same hobbies and interests.
3. He / She . . .
a nice family.
is from the same country.
a handsome / beautiful face.
wants to get married.
a great personality. (He or she is friendly.)
other:
a good job.
my idea:

*Your (romantic) partner is your husband, wife, boyfriend, or girlfriend.

B Work in a small group. Share your answers. Explain your reasons.
For number 1, my answer
is “He’s got . . .”
C Now answer the questions together.
1. Are men’s and women’s answers similar or different?
2. What answers from A are the most common in your group?
Tell another group.

D Read about the two people.
1. Look at the underlined words. Are they correct? If not, change them.
2. Answer the questions with a partner.
• How old is each person?
• Are they single, married, or seeing someone?

In my country, many people get married in    In my country, many people get married at 29
twenties I’m old    seeing
their twenty. In my case, I have 22 years.    or 30. In my case, I’m 26. I’m see someone,
^
I’m single and I like it. I’m going to college,    but we don’t want to get married right now.
and I’ve got a lot of friends. I don’t want a    These days, I’m preparing for job
He’s
relationship* right now.    interviews. My boyfriend is 28. He got an
important job in a big hotel. We’re busy.
*“I don’t want a relationship” means “I don’t want a romantic partner.”
Person 1 is 22 and single. Person 2 is 26 and is seeing someone.
E WRITING Write five or six sentences about yourself. Use the examples in D to help you.
© National Geographic Learning
6B GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Talk about my relationship status
2. Mostly, yes.
State relationship preferences
3. Not yet.

86 | UNIT 6

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 22 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 177 ────────

D Read about the two people. 10–15 min
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
Tell students to read the people’s short
WARM-UP 5 min
paragraphs. Go over the meaning of I don't want
Read the question at the top of the survey aloud
a relationship, which is defined on the page.
and make sure students understand the meaning of
Then tell students to read the paragraphs again.
the word partner used in this context. (It’s defined
This time, they should look at the underlined
on the page.) Explain that in this survey, students
words. Are they correct? If not, they should
will talk about things they want in a partner.
change them. Then have students answer the
two questions about both writers. Tell students to
A Review the survey with the class. Then work on
check answers with a partner. Go over answers
your own. Choose your answers. 5 min
together as a class. As part of your review, you
Tell students to read through the survey. Take
may want to remind students about the different
questions about any unfamiliar vocabulary. Note
ways we use apostrophes in writing.
that many of the words in the survey come not
only from this unit but earlier ones, too. Then give
WRITING TIP: Using apostrophes
students a few minutes to complete the survey
Use an apostrophe (’) to . . .
on their own.
1. join two words: I’m 22. I’ve got a lot of friends.
B Work in a small group. Share your answers.
2. show possession: My sister’s husband is 35.
Explain your reasons. 15 min
Assign students to groups of three or four. Have
E WRITING Write five or six sentences about
students share their survey answers and explain
yourself. Use the examples in D to help you.
their reasons. Point out the example, which they
15–30 min
can use to get started. Encourage people in
the group to ask follow-up questions. Students
Ask students to make some notes in their
should take notes on what the others in the
notebooks with their own ideas. Then have
group say.
students write their own paragraphs, using their
notes and the examples to get started.
C Now answer the questions together. 15 min
Diagnostics
In the same groups, have students answer
Check students’ competencies as follows:
the questions and then report their answers to
• Can they talk about relationship status (single,
another group. To finish the exercise, ask group
married, etc.)?
reporters to share their answers in C with the
class. As a class, identify what the most common
• Can they give opinions about marriage and
answers are. Are there any surprises?
relationships?
• Can they use have and have got correctly?
TEACHING TIP: Assign roles for groupwork
• Can they use apostrophes correctly in writing?
For exercises B and C, it may be helpful to assign
people in each group a different role. One person
can be the group leader, ensuring that group
6B
GOALS
members all ask questions and are talking. A
Review students’ self-assessment in the
second person can be the secretary, noting group
goals box. Point out to students where in the
members’ answers. A third person can be the
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
reporter, who summarizes the group’s answers and
they can review those exercises to improve
speaks to others in class. In a larger group, one
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
role can be shared by two people. Assigning roles
Talk about your relationship status:
like this helps ensure that everyone in the group is
© National Geographic Learning
Vocabulary, page 81, A–C; Reading,
participating.
pages 82–83, A–E; Listening, page 84, A–E;
Grammar, page 85, B; Active English,
EXTRA! Ask someone older 20–25 min
page 86, D and E
Have students use the survey to interview people
State relationship preferences: Reading,
who are older outside of class. Are their answers the
pages 82–83, A–E; Listening, page 84, A–E;
same as people in class? Have students report their
Active English, page 86, A–E
findings.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson B | 86a

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 23 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 178 ────────

D Now it’s your turn. In your notebook, describe
GLOBAL VOICES
your family. Then explain: What is something
interesting about your family or one of your family
WARM-UP 5 min
members? 20 min
Look at the photo and ask, Where are the people?
Tell students to work on their own. In their
What are they doing? In your city, do families do
notebooks, they should write a few sentences
things like this?
about their family. Write these questions on the
board to help students get started: How many
ABOUT THE VIDEO
people are in your family? Who are they? How
In the video, people from different countries describe
old are they? Are any married? Do they have
their families. Some also tell viewers an interesting
children? Students don’t have to answer all of the
fact about their family. Most of the speakers are in
questions; they can pick and choose.
Lima, Peru (the country’s capital) or Shenzhen, China
Then write this question on the board, What is
(a city in the southeastern part of China, near Hong
one interesting thing about your family or one
Kong). In the second half of the video, a man from
of your family members? Tell students to make
Brazil and one from Israel are also interviewed.
some notes. Circulate, helping with vocabulary
and sentences.
A Read the sentences below. Then watch the video.
Circle the correct answers. 15–20 min
Then tell students to practice talking about their
family using their notes. Students should do this
Tell students to look at the five names on the
on their own, rehearsing quietly. Tell them to do
left. Explain that these people are from different
this several times, until they feel comfortable
countries, and that they will talk about their
talking without their notes.
families. Then do the following:
1. Play the first part of the video only (the section
E Work with a partner. Follow the steps. 15–20 min
in which the five speakers describe their
families). Tell students to just watch once
Have students work in pairs. They are going to
and take some simple notes on things the
practice giving their talk three times.
speakers say. They don’t have to complete
Round 1: When you say go, one person in each
1–10 yet. Pause the video after each person
pair should start talking about his or her family.
speaks to give students time to make notes.
The goal is to speak for a minute as fluently as
2. Play the first part of the video again, pausing
possible (i.e., without constantly hesitating) and
after each speaker. Tell students to listen and
without using notes as much as possible. When
choose their answers in 1–10.
a minute is up, call time. Then the person’s
partner can ask a follow-up question or two.
3. Check answers, playing the video a third time
Then tell students to change roles. This time,
as needed.
when you say go, the other person should speak
for a minute.
B With a partner, ask and answer the questions
about the people in A. 10 min
Round 2: Tell students to pair up with a different
partner. Repeat the steps above.
Have students work with a partner. Tell them
to take turns asking and answering the four
Round 3: Tell students to work with a different
questions. They should use their answers in A to
partner. Repeat the steps above. At the end of
reply. Model the exercise by doing the first one
round three, ask, How was it each time (i.e., in
with the class.
Round 1, 2, 3)? Good, OK, so-so? By the end
of Round 3, you may discover that students’
C Read sentences 1–4. Then watch and circle true
fluency and confidence have improved.
or false. Correct the false answers. 10–15 min
Tell students they will now watch part two of the
F Tell the class one fact about your partner’s family.
© National Geographic Learning
video. In it, the people answer this question:
5 min
What is something interesting about your
Have each student think of one fun fact they
family? Tell students to read sentences 1–4, and
learned about a partner. Put an example on the
make sure they understand words like building
board: Fun fact: Susana’s grandparents are from
(defined in the Word Bank), commercial (an
the Canary Islands! Then go around the class in
ad on TV or in other media), and where the
a circle, with each student saying their fun fact
countries Israel and Morocco are.
aloud.
Play the second part of the video only. Pause the
video after each person speaks to give students
time to choose their answers. Then play it a
second time. Check answers with the class.

87a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 24 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 179 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A Read the sentences below. Then watch the video. Circle the correct answers.
Miyri 1. She’s got four / five brothers and one sister / no sisters.
2. She is single / married.
Abel 3. He’s got a sister / two sisters.
4. His mother’s sister / mother lives with his family.
Lizzy 5. Her brother is 24 / 25.
6. Her sister is 12 / 20. She’s younger / older.
Dickie 7. He’s got a brother / two brothers.
8. Dickie / Dickie’s brother is married.
Max 9. He is single / married.
10. He has a child / no children.

B With a partner, ask and answer the questions about the people in A.
Miyri (She doesn’t say the age of her siblings.)
1. Who’s married?    3. Who has both brothers and sisters? How old are they?
Miyri, Max    Lizzy’s brother is 25. Her (younger) sister is 12.
2. Who’s a parent?    4. Who lives with a grandparent?
Max (He’s got a son.)    Abel (He lives with his grandmother [his mom’s mother].)

C Read sentences 1–4. Then watch and circle true or false. Correct the false answers.
1. A lot of Marcel’s family members live in the same building. True False
grandparents
2. Ricardo’s parents are from China. True False
WORD BANK
father
A building is a large
3. Abel’s mother makes movies and TV commercials. True False
place to live or work.
4. David is from Israel. His parents are from Morocco. True False

D Now it’s your turn. In your notebook, describe your family. Then explain:
What is something interesting about your family or one of your family members?

E Work with a partner. Follow the steps.
My cousin lives in the UK.
1. For one minute, talk about your family. Don’t
Is he a student?
use your notes. When you listen, ask questions.

2. Repeat step 1 with two other people.

Kyung’s cousin is
F Tell the class one fact about your partner’s family.
studying in the UK.

Families at Yoyogi
© National Geographic Learning
Park in Tokyo, Japan

Lesson B | 87

WLTB_INT_U06_ptg01.indd 25 22/05/21 6:07 PM

──────── Page 180 ────────

REAL WORLD LINK MY FAVORITE PLACE TO EAT

Empanadas are popular in many Latin American
countries. They’re made with different ingredients
in each region. This is a corn empanada.

A Do you read or watch restaurant reviews?
WORD BANK
In a restaurant review, a
B A woman is vlogging* about her favorite restaurant. 55
person gives an opinion
about a restaurant or
1. Read her comments below. Pay attention to the underlined words.
other place to eat.
2. Listen. Are the underlined words correct? If not, change them.

lunch Peruvian
Today, my friend and I are eating dinner at our favorite Mexican restaurant: Carla’s Kitchen. It’s
© National Geographic Learningson and daughter
Carla Mendoza and her husband’s restaurant. Their sons work there, too.

The restaurant is famous for a chicken dish called pollo a la brasa. To make it, Carla uses her
mother’s chicken
grandmother’s recipe. This really is a family business! Many people order the steak, but the

menu has got lots of other things, too.

*Vlogging means posting videos online.

88

WLTB_INT_RWL02_ptg01.indd 2 22/05/21 5:58 PM

──────── Page 181 ────────

C Read items 1 and 2. Then listen and complete the
REAL WORLD LINK:
tasks. 56 10 min
MY FAVORITE PLACE TO EAT,
Review all the food words in the box and check
Units 4–6
that students know how to say them. To check
understanding, ask students, Which are meat?
WARM-UP 5–10 min
(steak and chicken) Which are vegetables?
Have students look at the photo of someone making
(salad, fries (potato), onions, spinach, tomatoes)
an empanada and read the caption. Then ask
Give students time to read the text with the meal
students, Do you eat empanadas? Where do people
descriptions and then play the audio twice.
eat them? (In many Latin American countries)
Check answers as a class.
What food is popular and famous in your country?
If students tell you about a famous type of dish in
NOTES
their country, ask them to tell the class about the
ingredients and how you make it.

A Do you read or watch restaurant reviews? 5 min
Refer students to the explanation of the word
review in the Word Bank and discuss the
question as a class. If students answer “yes,”
ask them where they read or watch them. If they
answer “no,” ask how students decide which
restaurant or cafe to go to. Depending on the
age of your class, you might also want students
to talk about fast food places they eat at, or
cafes in addition to restaurants.

EXTRA! Listening for the main idea
55 10 min

Before starting B, and if you have a stronger class,
you could play audio track 55 once while students
listen with their books closed. Ask students to
answer two questions only:

1. What is the restaurant? (Carla’s Kitchen. It's
Peruvian.)
2. What is their famous dish? (Chicken – pollo a la
brasa)

This task makes students listen for the main idea of
the review before having the chance to read the text
in B.

B A woman is vlogging about her favorite
restaurant. 55 10 min
Give students time to read the text. Then have
them listen and change any incorrect underlined
words. Be prepared to play the audio twice so
© National Geographic Learning
students can check their answers on the second
listening.

LANGUAGE TIP: Vlogging and blogging

If students aren’t familiar with the term vlogging,
explain that vlogs are like blogs but with video.
So instead of writing a text on a blog, you record
a video for your vlog. The people who write blogs
are bloggers, but people who make videos are
vloggers.

Teacher’s Book UNITS 4–6 | 88a

WLTB_INT_RWL02_ptg01.indd 3 22/05/21 5:58 PM

──────── Page 182 ────────

G Work with a partner. Watch, listen to, or read your
D Do you like the food at Carla’s Kitchen? Complete
an expression and tell a partner why. 5 min
partner’s review. 20–25 min
Have students choose one of the expressions
Have students share their work in pairs or in
and prepare a complete sentence about Carla’s
small groups. If they have written their reviews,
Kitchen with it. Invite a few students to share
these could be posted around the classroom
their opinions of the food with the whole class.
and students could walk around and read them.
Encourage them to add what type of food they
If you are teaching online, students can share
normally like or don’t like.
links to their vlogs or podcasts or post their
written review on the class website or LMS. Then
have students take turns asking questions and
E Think of your favorite place to eat. Complete the
saying whether they would like to go.
information. 5–10 min
Have students work alone to complete the
NOTES
information about their favorite place. Monitor
their progress and provide help with any
unknown words; note in particular that places to
eat often have names for dishes that might be
too hard to translate, so students can use the
name of the dish in its native language. It’s also
important that students realize that they can write
about any “place to eat,” which might include
any of the suggested items in the box to the right
of the exercise; they could even describe their
grandmother’s home if they like!

TEACHING OPTION
If your students are from the same town or city and
know the same types of restaurants or cafes, they
could work in pairs to complete E and F.

F You Choose Go to your favorite place to eat.
Choose an option. Then follow the instructions in
the box. 20–30 min
Assign this task to be done after class and
before the next class. Which option students
choose may depend on whether they have a
way to make a video or record themselves, or
whether it’s easier to write the review in Option 3.
If students can’t visit the place to eat before the
next class, they could look it up online and use
some information from the website. Also, refer
them to the language tips in the box to the right of
the exercise, which suggests how to structure the
review and the type of expressions they can use.

TEACHING TIP: Project work and handing over

With exercises like F, where students need to go
off and carry out project work, you need to be
© National Geographic Learning
very flexible with the organization and timing. As
teachers, we are used to controling every part of
a lesson, but with project work, it’s an opportunity
for students to take charge and develop their
own organizational skills alongside their language
learning. So whenever possible and appropriate,
hand over the task and let students decide the best
way to progress through a project.

89a | Teacher’s Book UNITS 4–6

WLTB_INT_RWL02_ptg01.indd 4 22/05/21 5:58 PM

──────── Page 183 ────────

UNITS 4–6
C Read items 1 and 2. Then listen and complete the tasks. 56
1. Complete each person’s meal with the words in the box. Two words are extra.

beans chicken onions a salad steak
cheese fries rice spinach tomatoes

chicken    fries a salad
The woman is having the dish. It comes with and .

steak    onions
Her friend is eating empanadas. The beef empanada has got , ,
tomatoes    spinach    cheese
and in it. The vegetable empanada has got and

inside.

2. Write the numbers.
22
Total for the meal: $
11
For each person: $

D Do you like the food at Carla’s Kitchen? Complete an expression and tell a partner why.
Yeah, I . . . It’s OK, but . . . Not . . .

E Think of your favorite place to eat. Complete the information.
Places to eat
a restaurant
The place’s name:
a cafe
Type of food:
a food truck or stall
Location:
a family member’s home
Popular dish(es):
your idea:

F You Choose Go to your favorite place to eat. Choose an option.
At the start of your
Then follow the instructions in the box.
review:
Option 1: Make a video of the place and the food.
Greet people.
Talk about the information
Option 2: Make a podcast about the place and the food.
in E.
Record your opinions.
Then explain:
Option 3: Give a presentation about the place and the food.
Are you having a snack or
Take photos and write sentences about them.
a meal?
My favorite place is in Shinchon
What are you eating or
subway station. It doesn’t have
drinking? Talk about it.
a name. It’s a food stall. In this
photo, I’m eating . . . My favorite place to eat is
How’s the food? Do you
my aunt’s house. Today,
© National Geographic Learning
like it?
she’s making . . .
Is the place expensive?
G Work with a partner. Watch, listen to, or read your partner’s review.
1. Ask your partner questions.

In the video, what are you drinking? It looks good.

2. Explain: Do you like your partner’s place? Why or why not?

Yeah, I like it, and I want to go!
It’s OK, but pizza isn’t my favorite food.

89

WLTB_INT_RWL02_ptg01.indd 5 22/05/21 5:58 PM

──────── Page 184 ────────

UNIT 7

7
ABOUT THE PHOTO
An astronomical clock measures
not only minutes and hours,
but also the movements of the
sun, the moon, and the stars. It
TIME
also marks the day, month, and
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
year. Installed in 1410 in the Old
QUESTIONS.
Town Square in Prague, Czech
1. Say the days of the week with your teacher.
Republic, this clock is the oldest
Monday    Friday
of its kind still in use. It’s a popular
Tuesday    Saturday
tourist attraction; people gather
Wednesday    Sunday
every hour to watch a “parade” of
Thursday
clock figures.
Which one is your favorite?

2. When is the weekend in your country? Say
the day(s).
INTRODUCE THE THEME
In this unit, students will discuss
WARM-UP VIDEO
time, specifically as it relates to
A Watch the first 40 seconds of the video. How
one’s daily routine.
does Carlos feel? Circle your answer.

In Lesson A, students will learn
happy nervous relaxed
how to tell time and the verbs
B Watch the video. What do we know about
they need to talk about daily
Carlos? Write T for true, F for false, or ? for
routines. Next, they’ll listen to
don’t know.
a talk about daily life on the
T
1. It’s 8:45.
International Space Station. They
F
2. Carlos lives with his family.
will then make and respond to
?
3. He’s from Canada.
suggestions. The grammar focus
F
4. Carlos has a big breakfast.
is on prepositions of time (at, in,
?
5. He’s taking a business class.
on, from . . . to). Finally, students
F
6. Today is Friday.
will compare schedules to find a
good time to study or see a movie.
C Look up the word late in your dictionary. Then
answer the question. Explain your answer to a
partner.
In Lesson B, students will use
Is Carlos late for work?
expressions with go to talk about
No, he’s not. It’s Saturday.
everyday activities (go walking,
go for a drive). They will then
D When you are late, how do you feel? Tell a
read about different weekend
partner.
personality types and choose
their own type. They’ll listen to
a talk about a kind of daytime
dance party. The grammar focus
is on Wh- questions in the simple
present. Students will close out the
lesson by playing a memory game
while they ask their classmates,
WARM-UP VIDEO
using the question forms they’ve
What time is it?
About the video
just learned.
In the video, students watch what
Look at the photo. Answer the
happens when a man (Carlos)
questions. 5–10 min
WARM-UP 5–10 min
oversleeps.
© National Geographic Learning
Have students open their books.
Say the days of the week as your
Point at the picture and say, This
students listen and repeat. Pay
A Watch the first 40 seconds of
is a clock. Point at the clock in
attention to the pronunciation of
the video. How does Carlos
your room and ask, What time is
the following days: Monday
feel? Circle your answer.
it? Write the time on the board
/mʌndeɪ/, Wednesday /w nzdeɪ/,
10 min
and practice saying it with your
Saturday /ˈsæt rˌdeɪ/. Have
This video tells a story without
students. Then write some other
students tell you their favorite
words. For this reason, students
times on the board and ask the
day: My favorite day is . . . . Point
will need to watch closely for
time. Have students come to the
at the list of days and ask, When
clues to the answers. Carlos
board and write different times
is the weekend? Ask, Do you like
thinks he is late for work and
the weekend? Why?

90 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 7

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 60 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 185 ────────

The Prague Astronomical
Clock is an old and
rushes around, but in the end
beautiful clock. It's
realizes it is Saturday (his day
popular with locals
off).
and tourists.

Write the following questions
on the board.
1. What is the name of the
video? Late for ___
2. Where is the man?
3. Is it morning, afternoon, or
evening?
4. How does he feel?
Play the first 40 seconds of the
video (up until we see Carlos
leaving his bedroom, fully
dressed) and have students
write their answers to the four
questions in their notebooks.
Then put students in pairs to
discuss their answers. Come
back together as a class and
have students answer the
questions in full sentences:
1. The name of the video
is Late for Work.; 2. He’s at
home.; 3. It’s morning.; 4. He
feels nervous.

B Watch the video. What do we
know about Carlos? Write T for
true, F for false, or ? for don’t
know. 10 min
Read through the sentences
with your students. Explain
that they should write T, F, or
? (if they aren’t sure). For item
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
2, they will have to infer their
/ Tell time and describe your daily    / Talk about weekend activities
answer (see Teaching Tip).
routine    / Ask and answer information
Play the video as students
/ Make and respond to suggestions    questions
mark their answers. Then go
over the answers as a class.
For item 2, students may infer
C Look up the word late in your
D When you are late, how do you
the answer is “false.” (Reason:
dictionary. Then answer the
feel? Tell a partner. 5–10 min
He’s alone.)
question. Explain your answer
Have students refer back to
to a partner. 5 min
the words in A or use their own
TEACHING TIP: Inference
Students should complete their
word (bad). You can also ask
© National Geographic Learning
An inference is an assumption
answer and tell a partner. Note
what they think about people
or educated guess, based on
that the answer is no, and we
who are always late. Ask, Is it
what one has seen or heard. We
know that because It’s Saturday
good or bad?
don’t know the answer for sure,
appears on Carlos’s phone.
but we have a pretty good idea.
Making an inference is a higherlevel prediction exercise. When
making an inference, students
should focus on this question:
What information do I see / hear
to support my inference?

Teacher’s Book UNIT 7 | 91

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 61 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 186 ────────

7A MY ROUTINE

VOCABULARY

A Say the times on the clocks with your teacher.
Then work with a partner.

1. Cover the words. Point at a clock.
2. Ask your partner, What time is it?    half a quarter

It’s one o’clock. It’s one-fifteen.    It’s one thirty.    It’s one forty-five.
It’s a quarter past one.    It’s half past one.    It’s a quarter to two.

B Read about Max’s day. Then tell a partner about it.

Max wakes up at 6:30    Then he takes a shower and gets dressed. He leaves home at 7:30
and has breakfast.    and goes to school.

© National Geographic Learning
His classes start at 8:15 and finish at 3:45. He goes home    He goes to bed
at 4:00.    at 10:30.

C Use the words in blue in B to tell your partner about your daily routine.
WORD BANK
I wake up at 5:30.    early late
That’s early!

92 | UNIT 7

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 62 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 187 ────────

Max’s day. Come back together as a class. Ask
7A MY ROUTINE
a student, Are you like Max? as you point to the
first picture. The student should answer, Yes, I
VOCABULARY
am. I wake up at 6:30, too. or No, I’m not. I wake
up at 7:00. Ask about all the pictures in this way.
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Ask students to keep their books closed. Review
C Use the words in blue in B to tell your partner
the numbers 1–12 with your students. Show them
about your daily routine. 5–10 min
a clock face at 1:00. Point at it and say, It’s one
o’clock as students repeat. Do it for all of the hours.
Now students are going to tell their partner
Then point at different hours on the clock and have
about their daily routine, using the sentences
individual students tell you what time it is. At this
in B as a model. Before they do that, however,
point, don’t add in any times that contain minutes.
say, Max wakes up at 6:30. That’s early. I wake
(Note that you can do this exercise by moving the
up at 10:00. That’s late. Next, write this question
hands on a real clock, or by drawing clocks on the
on the board: What time do you wake up? Ask
board.)
individual students to answer the question: I
wake up at (time). Have students work in the
same pairs. They should take turns asking each
A Say the times on the clocks with your teacher.
other about their day. Students can comment,
Then work with a partner. 5–10 min
as appropriate, by saying, That’s early / late!
Have students open their books. Point to the first
Circulate and help as necessary, especially with
clock and say, It’s one o’clock. Then read all of
times other than those on the half or quarter hour
the other clock faces as your students repeat.
(for example, 3:40, 7:25).
Point to the two circles at the top of the page that
show half and a quarter. Point to the first circle
EXTRA! What’s my routine? 10–15 min
and say, You can see two equal parts. This is half
of the circle. Then point to the clock showing 1:30
To give students more practice describing their
and say, You can say It’s one-thirty or It’s half past
daily routines, do this exercise. On the left side of
one. They mean the same thing. Do the same
their paper, have them write down the activities
explanation with the circle showing a quarter.
of their daily routine (wake up, take a shower,
Practice saying the clock times once more. Cover
etc.), and on the right side the time that they do
the times below the clocks and call on individual
each activity. Optional: Have students add in have
students to tell the time. Finally, write a variety of
breakfast / lunch / dinner for additional practice.
different times on the board that allow students to
Then students should copy each of the times down
practice saying the two different ways of telling
on a separate slip of paper, mix up the papers, and
time (12:45, 5:15, 8:30, etc.).
place them face down in a pile.

Pair students with a new partner. Students should
LANGUAGE TIP: How to read “12:05”
take turns taking one slip of paper from their
Take a moment to show your students how to
partner’s pile, reading the time aloud, and guessing
read a time like 12:05 (we say twelve-oh-five, not
what happens at that time. For example, 12:45. You
twelve-five).
have lunch at 12:45. The partner should say either,
That’s correct or That’s incorrect. Try again.

B Read about Max’s day. Then tell a partner about
it. 10 min
NOTES
Say, Let’s look at Max’s daily routine. First,
point to each picture and say the main verb as
your students repeat: wake up, take a shower,
get dressed. Next, have your students close
their books and say the verbs as you point to
© National Geographic Learning
the pictures. Finally, with books open, read
the sentences and have your students repeat.
Encourage them to follow your word stress
pattern to give them more practice with placing
the stress on content words: Then he takes a
shower.

Put students into pairs and have them tell their
partner about Max’s day. Have them do a first
round where they each read the sentences in
their books. Then, in a second round, students
should cover the sentences and talk about

Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson A | 92a

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 63 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 188 ────────

Play the audio once. Students shouldn’t write
LISTENING
anything. They should just listen. Ask individual
students to tell you one thing they heard.
WARM-UP 10 min
(It could be anything.) Play the audio again and
Write International Space Station on the board.
have students go through and check (✓) their
Have students look up the words. What do they
answers. Review the answers as a class.
know about the space station? Say, Let’s take a
quiz. Give your students these three sentences and
Organize information. When students listen
read them aloud:
to a talk, they need to be thinking about how to
organize the information. By creating a chart or a
1. The International Space Station is ___ years old.
diagram and then inserting the information, they
will be better able to retain what they’ve heard
2. ___ people work on the space station.
as well as understand the relationship between
3. The space station goes at ___ km a second.
concepts. There are many different types of
graphic organizers—a chart is only one of them.
Tell your students to complete each sentence with a
number. If they don’t know the answers, they should
C Listen for numbers. Listen again. Write the times
guess. (This exercise is more about reviewing how
astronauts do these activities. 57 10 min
to say numbers than testing these particular facts.)
This time students are going to listen for the
Then put students in pairs to discuss their guesses.
specific times. Play the audio again and have
Finally, go over the answers as a class. (Answers: 1.
students listen and then compare their answers
The space station has been continuously occupied
with a partner. Go over the answers as a class.
since November 2000 (so you can calculate the
answer from that date); 2. Six; 3. 8.5 (or 5 miles a
Listen for numbers. One way for students to
second)
get a handle on content can be to listen for the
numbers and what they refer to. This can give
them “a way in” to the listening and help them
A Look at the photo and read the caption. Where is
organize the information.
the astronaut? What is he doing? 5 min
Have students open their books, look at the photo,
D In your opinion, is life on the International Space
and read the caption. On the board, draw the sun
Station interesting? Why or why not? 5 min
and three circles in a row showing the planets.
Ask, Is the space station interesting to you? Do
Point at the third circle and say, This is our home.
you want to try the astronaut’s schedule? Have
This is Earth. Point at Earth in the photo. Point
some students explain their answers.
at the astronaut in the photo and say, He’s an
astronaut. Have students answer the questions
in the instructions with complete sentences: The
EXTRA! Do you want to try this? 10 min
astronaut is on the space station. He’s in space. /
Write these activities on the board: go for a
He’s walking in space. / He’s on a spacewalk. Ask,
spacewalk / watch a movie / exercise / take photos
Do you want to go on a spacewalk?
of Earth / call your friends. Ask, What do you
want to do in space? Choose one. Put students
in pairs. When they tell their partners their choice
B Organize information. Life on the International
(for example, I want to call my friends), the partner
Space Station is busy. Listen to an astronaut’s
should ask a follow-up question (Who are you
daily schedule. Follow the steps. 57 10–15 min
calling?). As a class, write the choices on the
Have students close their books. Write the hours
board, take a vote, and tally the results. Which is the
of the day on the board and circle different times
most popular activity?
to teach in the morning / afternoon / evening.
Ask, What do you do in the morning / afternoon /
evening? Have individual students tell you one
thing.
© National Geographic Learning
Say, What does an astronaut do every day? Is
he or she busy? Let’s listen and learn about an
astronaut’s daily schedule. Have students open
their books and look at the chart. Say, We’re
learning information about an astronaut. How do
we organize the information? (Students learned
the word organize in Unit 3.) Point to the top row
of the chart and say, On the top row, we have the
time of day. Point to the left and say, Here’s the
astronaut’s routine. Have students read through
the activities.

93a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 64 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 189 ────────

LISTENING

A Look at the photo and read the caption. Where is the astronaut? What is he
doing?

B Organize information. Life on the International Space Station is busy. Listen to
WORD BANK
an astronaut’s daily schedule. Follow the steps. 57
morning
1. Read the list of activities.
in the afternoon
evening
2. Do astronauts do these activities in the morning (M), afternoon (A), or evening
(E)? Check (✓) your answers.

M A E
exercise
✓
✓
get dressed
leave the space station
✓
✓
✓
talk on the phone
✓
watch movies
✓
work on science projects

C Listen for numbers. Listen again. Write the times astronauts do these activities. 57
6:00    5:00 – 7:00
1. wake up 4. exercise
12:30    10:30
2. have lunch 5. go to bed
1:00
3. start working again

D In your opinion, is life on the International Space Station interesting? Why or why
not?

Astronaut Franklin R. Chang-Diaz on a
spacewalk outside the International Space
Station. Behind him is Earth.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson A | 93

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 65 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 190 ────────

SPEAKING

Jon: Let’s go to the park.
A PRONUNCIATION: Numbers Listen and
repeat. Notice the different stress. 58
Mindy: But it’s too cold outside.
1. The movie starts at 8:15.
Jon: We could see a movie.
2. The movie starts at 8:50.
Mindy: Great idea. How about an action movie?
3. Class finishes at 3:13.
Jon: I don’t like action movies. We could
see the new Bong Joon Ho movie.
4. Class finishes at 3:30.
Mindy: That’s a good idea. He’s my favorite
director. What time does it start?
B Listen to the conversation. Read the sentences
and circle T for true or F for false. 59
Jon: There’s a show at 8:15 and one at 11:30.
1. Jon likes action movies. T F
Mindy: 11:30 is late. Let’s go to the early show.
2. Bong Joon Ho is an actor. T F
Jon: Sounds good!
3. Mindy likes Bong Joon Ho. T F
4. Mindy wants to go at 11:30. T F

A movie theater
in Los Angeles, USA

C Look at the conversation again.
SPEAKING STRATEGY 60
How do Jon and Mindy make
Making and responding to suggestions
suggestions? Find two examples.
Making a    Saying yes    Saying no politely
Underline them. Practice the
suggestion    (That’s a) good idea. I don’t really like
conversation.
Let’s go to the park.    (That’s a) great idea. action movies.
We could see a movie. (That) sounds good.
D Use the Speaking Strategy to
How about an action
complete the conversation. Then
movie?
practice with a partner.
© National Geographic Learning
A: What do you want to do after class?
B: OK, well, let’s / we could see a movie.
B: play video games.
We could / Let’s    A: Great idea / . What do you want to see?
I don’t really like    Good idea
A: video games.

E Add three or four more lines to the conversation in D.
Student B: Suggest a movie to see.
Student A: You don’t want to see Student B’s movie. Suggest another idea.
Students A & B: Agree on a movie and a time to see it.

94 | UNIT 7

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 66 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 191 ────────

C Look at the conversation again. How do Jon and
SPEAKING
Mindy make suggestions? Find two examples.
Underline them. Practice the conversation.
WARM-UP 5 min
5–10 min
Write on the board, What time . . . ? Ask, What time
Go over the language in the Speaking Strategy.
is it? Then ask, Do you like movies? After several
Have your students cover the Speaking Strategy
students answer, ask, What time do movies start in
with a piece of paper and have them find at least
the evening? What time do they finish? Have each
two examples of the strategy in the conversation
student tell a partner the name of the next movie
in B. You can also have them find as many
they want to see (in a theater): I want to see (name
examples as they can. Go over the answers as
of movie) on Thursday. It starts . . .
a class.

LANGUAGE TIP: Talking about approximate time
SPEAKING STRATEGY 60 5–10 min
Teach your students to say around when they want
Points for your students: 1) When we make a
to give an approximate time: The movie starts at
suggestion with let’s, we always use the contracted
8:00 and finishes around 10:00.
form. 2) Let’s . . . and We could . . . are followed
by verbs, while (in this lesson) How about . . . is
followed by a noun: How about a video game /
A PRONUNCIATION: Numbers Listen and repeat.
the park? 3) Notice that we don’t typically respond
Notice the different stress. 58 5–10 min
with a direct “no” when turning down a suggestion,
Have your students keep their books closed to
but instead say, I don’t really like . . . . Rub your
start. Write these pairs of numbers on the board:
stomach and say, I’m hungry to prompt your
13 / 30, 14 / 40, 15 / 50, up to 19 / 90. Read each
students to make suggestions: Let’s go to a cafe.
pair as your students listen. Then read them as
How about an ice cream?
they repeat. Ask, What do you hear? How are
fifteen and fifty different? How about nineteen
and ninety? There are several things your
TEACHING OPTION: Missing lines 10 min
students may notice (see Language Tip).
To give your students more practice, remove some
of Jon’s lines from the conversation in B.
Have students open their books and read the
sentences. Play the audio as your students listen
Have students practice the conversation in pairs,
and repeat. Next, read one of the sentences
with each student getting a chance to play the
aloud randomly and have your students call out
role of Jon. They should try to say Jon’s lines
whether they hear item 1, 2, 3, or 4.
without looking at the book. If they can’t remember
something, their partner can help by prompting
them.
LANGUAGE TIP: Fifteen vs. fifty

Points to keep in mind: 1) The numbers ending in
-teen take the stress on the last syllable, while the
D Use the Speaking Strategy to complete the
larger numbers are stressed on the first syllable:
conversation. Then practice with a partner.
fifteen / fifty. 2) In American English, the -teen
5–10 min
numbers are pronounced with a clear /t/ sound,
Have students work alone to complete the short
while the larger numbers (like ninety) are often
conversation. They should then work with a
pronounced with a weak /t/ or a /d/ sound for the
partner and settle on one set of answers (some
final syllable. (Exceptions are fifty and sixty, which
blanks have more than one possible answer)
have a clear /t/ sound.)
before practicing the conversation.

B Listen to the conversation. Read the sentences
E Add three or four more lines to the conversation
and circle T for true or F for false. 59 10 min
in D. 10–15 min
Have your students listen to the audio the first
Have students write three or four more lines to
time with their books closed. Ask, Where are Jon
© National Geographic Learningthe conversation they started. By the end of
and Mindy going? What time are they going?
the conversation, they should have agreed on
It’s OK if your students don’t get the answers
something to do together. Invite some pairs to
yet. Have them open their books. Play the audio
perform their conversations for the class.
as they listen and repeat. Tell them to ask you
about any words they don’t know. Put students in
pairs to circle true or false. When you review the
answers as a class, ask students to correct the
false sentences to make them true. This can also
give them some practice with the negative form:
Bong Joon Ho isn’t an actor. He’s a director.
Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson A | 94a

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 67 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 192 ────────

C Follow these steps. 10 min
GRAMMAR
First, have students work quietly, reading the
WARM-UP 5 min
sentences and filling in the missing prepositions.
Go over the answers by having students read
In this lesson, students are introduced to
the sentences aloud. Next, have students look at
prepositions of place. Key points:
each pair of sentences. The first one in each pair
• Use at before a specific time of day (at 4:00).
is a statement. What can they infer from it? Is the
second statement true, false, or unknown (the
• Use in the with the words morning / afternoon /
“don’t know” option) based on the first sentence?
evening.
Give an example. Say, My party is at 4 pm and
• Use on before days of the week.
then, It’s in the afternoon—true or false? (Answer:
• Use from . . . to . . . to indicate starting and
True). Go over the answers as a class.
ending times.
Write on the board the time, time of day, and day of
D Read the sentences. Correct the errors. Some
the week your English class meets. Something like
sentences are correct. 10–15 min
this: 2:00, the afternoon, Tuesday.
Have students read the sentences and circle all
Then write three prepositions on the board: on, at,
the prepositions. (There is also one preposition
in. Ask your students, When’s our English class?
missing.) They should make corrections as
Put them into pairs and tell them to guess where the
necessary. Have students write the sentences on
prepositions go. Check answers as a class.
the board and check them as a class.

TEACHING TIP: Learn prepositional phrases
E Complete the sentences with your own
information. 10 min
In this lesson, students are seeing prepositions
followed by articles or nouns. These combinations are
Do some pre-teaching of vocabulary. Say, I
called prepositional phrases. It’s helpful for students
like English. English is my favorite subject.
to learn these “chunks” of language rather than
What’s your favorite subject? Have students call
fixating too much on the prepositions themselves.
out ideas. Write them on the board. Students
should then complete the sentences with their
own information. (Make sure that they fill in
A Read the Unit 7, Lesson A Grammar Reference
a time for item 3 and a day of the week for
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
item 4.) Circulate and assist with vocabulary as
the exercises below. 10–15 min
necessary.
If you assigned the Grammar Reference as
homework, go over students’ work in class now.
F Take turns. Ask a partner about the information
Next, review the sentences in the chart. Write on
in E. 10 min
the board, When’s = When is. Show that when and
Before you put students into pairs, practice
what time overlap in usage, but the latter is more
making questions, as a class, about the
limited: What time is your class? It’s at 8:30. It’s on
information in E. Write when on the board and
Monday. Students can use when in all situations.
have students complete the first one: When do
Read through the question and the answers in
you like to study? For item 4, students can ask,
the chart and have your students repeat. Write
What day is your birthday on? Have students
at, in, on, and from . . . to . . . on the board. Then
take turns asking and answering the questions
think of an event that happens regularly in your
with a partner.
school (possible examples: lunchtime, 7th period,
club events after school). Point to one of the
EXTRA! Pass the ball 10 min
prepositions and ask, When’s lunchtime? Keep
Brainstorm and write on the board the names of
repeating the question, but point to different
classes, after school activities, and other events
prepositions as students answer so students can
© National Geographic Learning
at your school. Have your students toss a soft
practice with all of them.
ball around. Each time a student catches the ball,
they should add a word to a sentence that uses a
B Do you remember the days of the week? Say
preposition: English / class / is / from / 2:00 / to /
them with your teacher. 5 min
3:00. If students take too long to think or make a
Have students close their books. Do a quick
mistake, they are “out” of the game.
review of the days of the week. Stand at the
board and have students spell out the words as
you write the days of the week on the board. Call
on students to make sentences with days of the
week: On Monday, I . . .

95a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 68 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 193 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 7, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises.
Then do the exercises below.

i Notice:
PREPOSITIONS OF TIME
in the evening
When’s your class?    Use when to ask about times and days.
but at night
It’s at 8:30.    Use at for an exact time.
It’s in the morning.    Use in for a period of time.
It’s on Monday.    Use on for days of the week.
It’s from 4:00 to 5:30.    Use from . . . to for start and finish times.
It’s from Monday to Friday.

B Do you remember the days of the week? Say them with your teacher.

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday

C Follow these steps.
1. Write the missing words.
2. Read the pairs of sentences. For the second sentence in each pair, circle True, False, or Don’t
know.
in
1. Their party is the evening.
It lasts for two hours. True False Don’t know
on
2. The party is Saturday.
on
It’s not the weekend. True False Don’t know
at
3. My English class is 9:30.
It starts at 9:30. True False Don’t know
from to
4. It’s 9:30 10:15.
It last for 45 minutes. True False Don’t know

D Read the sentences. Correct the errors. Some sentences are correct.
from
1. My schedule is hard. I work at the night. My work hours are at 10:00 to 6:00.
in
at
2. My classes start the afternoon. The first class is on 2:00.
^
on
3. My birthday is on Tuesday this year. Luckily, we don’t have classes in my birthday.

E Complete the sentences with your own information.
1. I like to study the morning / afternoon / evening.
2. I do most of my homework school days / Saturdays and Sundays.
3. My favorite subject is . The class starts *.
© National Geographic Learning
4. My birthday is ** this year.
*Write in a time here. **Write in a day of the week here.

F Take turns. Ask a partner about the information in E.
When do you like
to study?
In the
afternoon.

Lesson A | 95

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 69 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 194 ────────

Students prepare for a
test in China.

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Work with a partner. Follow the steps.
Student A: Read the directions on this page.

Student B: Turn to page 214. Read the directions there.

STUDENT A

• Look at the activities in your schedule below. Don’t show your schedule to Student B.
• Task 1: You’re taking a big test on Friday afternoon at 4:00. You want to study with your partner
for two hours to prepare for the test. Find a good time to study together.

• Task 2: You want to see a movie at 7:00 in the evening. Find a good day to go.

Discuss your Wednesday schedules first. Then look at your Thursday and Friday schedules.
Use these expressions: Are you free…? I’m busy.

My schedule

Wednesday Thursday Friday
1:00 eat lunch in class
2:00 eat lunch in class
3:00
4:00 take a test
5:00 play soccer
6:00 do homework shop with friends
7:00 do homework

Student A: Let’s study together for the test.

Student B: Good idea!

Student A: Are you free on Wednesday at 3:00?

Student B: I’m sorry, but I’m busy then. I’m in class. How about 5:00?
© National Geographic Learning
B Think of your own idea for Saturday or Sunday. Make a plan with your partner.

7A GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Tell time and describe my daily routine
2. Mostly, yes.
Make and respond to suggestions
3. Not yet.

96 | UNIT 7

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 70 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 195 ────────

Step 3: Once students have found a convenient
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
time, have them move on to Task 2 (finding a
good time to see a movie). Have students switch
WARM-UP 5 min
roles so that Student B suggests the activity this
Do a review of the prepositions that your students
time, and Student A responds. Have students
have learned. Have students think of a class or an
start with Wednesday again to compare their
activity they attend, or a part-time job that they do.
schedules.
(If they can’t think of anything, have them think of a
friend or family member’s schedule.) Put students
into pairs and have them tell their partner about
TEACHING TIP: Information gap exercise
their event: I go to swimming class on Saturday. I go
In an information gap exercise, students are trying
in the morning. It’s from 10:00 to 11:00.
to complete a task, but they are missing some of
the information they need. Typically, another student
has the information, and they must communicate
A Work with a partner. Follow the steps. 25–30 min
with him or her to get it. This forces students to use
Your students are going to do an information gap
language in a transactional way, mimicking how we
exercise (see Teaching Tip). Before getting into
communicate in the real world. It’s important that
the exercise, do a quick review of how to make
you spend some time setting up the exercise so that
and respond to suggestions. Write on the board:
students understand the process.
Let’s . . . / We could . . . / How about . . . ? Ask
individual students to invite you to an activity. In
return, you should accept or refuse the invitation.
B Think of your own idea for Saturday or Sunday.
Then switch roles with a few additional students
Make a plan with your partner. 20 min
so that you do the inviting and they do the
Give students a blank chart similar to the one
responding.
in A, but for the weekend. Have each pair of
With books still closed, hand out or project a
students choose a day (Saturday or Sunday).
copy of the conversation at the end of A. Read
They should each write down four or five
the conversation as your students repeat.
activities for the day. They can then redo the
Then have pairs make their own conversation,
information gap exercise, but this time with their
changing the information: Let’s go to a cafe. /
own personal information.
Sounds good. / Are you free . . . .
Diagnostics
Step 1: Have students count off A, B, A, B. To
Check students’ competencies as follows:
start, pair As with other As and Bs with Bs. The
• Are students able to share information about
As should look at their schedule on page 96.
their personal schedules?
With their partner, have them practice telling
each other their schedule: I’m eating lunch
• Are they able to suggest a convenient time to get
on Thursday at 1:00. / I’m in class on Friday
together?
from 1:00 to 3:00. The B pairs should do the
• Are they able to convey when they’re available to
same thing as they look at their schedules on
meet and explain when they cannot?
page 214. It’s important that the Students A
don’t look at the Students B schedule, and
vice versa.
7A
GOALS
Step 2: Pair students off again, but this time each
Review students’ self-assessment in the
pair should be mixed: one Student A and one
goals box. Point out to students where in the
Student B. Before you begin, read the directions
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
for Task 1. Say, You want to study together. You
they can review those exercises to improve
need to study for two hours. (Students must
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
find an open two-hour block in their schedule.
Tell time and describe your daily routine:
Finding two different one-hour time slots isn’t
Vocabulary, page 92, A–C; Listening,
© National Geographic Learning
allowed.)
page 93, B–C; Grammar, page 95, C–F
If possible, have each pair of students sit back-
Make and respond to suggestions:
to-back, or have them hold up their books so
Speaking, page 94, B–E; Active English,
their partners can’t see their schedules. Starting
page 96, A–B
with Wednesday, students should take turns
asking their partner about their schedule, using
the conversation on the page as a model:
Let’s . . . . (Note: Since they’re going to be doing
a second task after this one, it’s best that they
don’t write in their books at this time.)

Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson A | 96a

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 71 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 196 ────────

TEACHING OPTION: More activities 10 min
7B HAVE A GOOD WEEKEND
You may want to give students additional
vocabulary to work with. Add some or all of these
VOCABULARY
to the list and have your students fill in the missing
words (go + -ing / go to / go for):
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Have students open their books, look at the photo,
go to + a place or event: go to a meeting, go to a
and read the caption. Write on the board, go for a
game (sports event), go to a party, go to a restaurant
bike ride. Ask, Where do you go for a walk or a bike
go for + an activity: go for a haircut, go for a coffee,
ride? What are some good places? Have students
go for a (bicycle, motorcycle) ride
discuss the questions with a partner. As a class,
compile answers on the board. Have students make
go + -ing verb: go shopping
sentences: (place) is a good / great place for a bike
ride. Ask, Why do you like it? (Possible answers: It’s
LANGUAGE TIP: Weekdays and weekends
quiet. / It’s beautiful. / It’s not crowded. / It’s near
(a river).)
Students have learned how to say on the weekend.
You can also introduce the phrase during the week to
talk about weekdays (not the weekend): During the
A Complete the chart. Use the words in the box.
week, I study hard. Then, on the weekend, I relax.
5–10 min

Have students close their books at first. Write
LANGUAGE TIP: go for
the words running, biking, driving, shopping,
swimming, and dancing on the board. Ask
1. When we want to make a casual invitation to a
some volunteers to stand up. As you point
friend, we use the expression go for a coffee:
to an action, have a student act it out. Then
Are you busy? How about going for a coffee?
have students open their books and study the
2. Encourage students to use other vocabulary
words in the chart. Say, We use go + -ing for
they know with go for: go for a long walk, go for
activities. For example, go swimming. Write on
an early morning bike ride. This will help them
the board: go swimming = go for a swim. Say,
start saying longer sentences.
These mean the same thing. Finally, say, When
you are moving from one place to another, use
go to. For example, go to a party. Write it on the
C Tell a partner about your answers in B. Are your
board. Give students some time to complete the
weekends similar or different? 10 min
chart with the words from the box. Go over the
answers as a class.
Put students in pairs. Have them take turns
telling their partner a thing they do on the
weekend: I go shopping at (name of store).
LANGUAGE TIP: Word partnerships
(If you have added in extra vocabulary, have
Word partnerships (collocations) are important. The
them also talk about things they do during the
“rules” of collocation, unlike grammar, are not fixed.
week.) For activities that they don’t do, they can
When we say “these words collocate,” we’re saying
use the negative form: I don’t go to the beach.
that there’s a strong possibility that native speakers
will put them together in this way. When students
EXTRA! It’s a fun place to visit 15 min
learn to use these word partnerships, their accuracy
and confidence will increase. Chunks of vocabulary
Read this short paragraph about Prospect Park (in
will become readily accessible—helping them
Brooklyn, New York) to your students. Have them
become more fluent speakers.
listen and write key words. Ask, What do people do
in Prospect Park?

Prospect Park is in Brooklyn, New York. It’s a fun
B Read the list and write the missing words. Then
place to visit in the summer. People like to go to
check (✓) the activities you do on the weekend.
concerts there on the weekend. Children like to go
© National Geographic Learning
5–10 min
to the zoo. It’s a popular place for sports, too. Many
Have students read the items and write their
people go biking and running in the park. I like to
answers. Circulate and offer help as necessary.
go there for a picnic with friends and then go for a
Remind students that go to is used for places,
long walk.
while go for is used with activities or actions. Go
Give students a copy of the paragraph. Have them
over the answers as a class. Students should
use it as a model and tell the class about a fun
then check off the items that they do on the
place they know.
weekend.

97a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 72 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 197 ────────

7B HAVE A GOOD WEEKEND

VOCABULARY

A Complete the chart. Use the words in the box.

biking driving friend’s house movies run

go + -ing verb go for + an activity go to + a place or event
run
go running go for a go to a concert
biking    friend’s house
go go for a bike ride go to a
driving    movies
go go for a drive go to the

B Read the list and write the missing words. Then check (✓) the activities you do on
the weekend.
go to go for /go to
1. a cafe    6. a picnic
WORD BANK
go for go    weekend
2. a walk    7. swimming
go to go for
3. the beach    8. a hike
go go
4. shopping    9. dancing
go to go to
5. a park    10. a mall

C Tell a partner about your answers in B. Are your weekends similar or different?

Governors Island sits in New York Harbor.
There are no cars there, so it's a great
place to go for a bike ride.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 97

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 73 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 198 ────────

READING
READING
READING
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Have students keep their books
W H AT T Y P E O F
closed. Write these words on the
board: spend time with friends,
exercise, work, sleep. Ask, What
W E E K E N D
do you do on the weekend? Have
students raise their hands as you
PERSON ARE YOU?
say each one. (They can vote for
more than one.) Next, write on the
Most people work during the week and have fun on the weekend. The weekend
board, during the week, on the
is a good time to go for a walk, go shopping, or just hang out with friends. Not
weekend. Say, During the week,
everyone relaxes on the weekend, though. Different people enjoy the weekend
I’m very busy. On the weekend, I
in different ways.
relax and spend time with friends.
Read about these four types of people. What type of weekend person are you?
Then call on students to make
their own sentences: During the
week, I have too much homework /
I sit a lot. On the weekend, I do
homework / I exercise.

A Use key words to predict. The
article is about four types of
people. Look at the photos. Then
answer the question. 5 min
THE COUCH POTATO    THE WORKAHOLIC
What’s your perfect weekend? Sleeping    You’re always busy: working, studying, talking
Have students look at the
late, watching TV, and playing video games.    on the phone, or checking emails. When you
four photos and their labels:
Some people are busy on the weekend, but    go out with friends on the weekend, you’re
couch potato, workaholic,
not you! You’re happy to stay on the couch all    thinking about your work or your next exam.
health nut, party animal. Write
day.
the labels on the board. Give
students time to look up any
go dancing, go to a party,
3. the party animal
A Use key words to predict. The article is
words they don’t know (for
go home late at night
about four types of people. Look at the photos.
example, animal and couch).
Then answer the question.
busy, working, studying,
4. the workaholic
Then write busy and relax on
talking on the phone, checking emails, go
Who relaxes and does nothing on the
out with friends
the board. Say, These are four
weekend? Guess. Write a check (✓) next to
your answer(s).    B Read the article. Check your answer in A.
types of people. Look at their
Key words    Write 3–4 key words about each type of
names. (Read the names.)
person.
1. the couch potato
What do you think they do on
✓ sleeping late, watching TV,
playing video games, stay on the couch
the weekend? Are they busy or
C Now compare your answers with a partner.
get busy, do things, wake up
2. the health nut
do they relax? Say, A “nut” is
early, go for a walk/run, exercise
a person who likes something
a lot. A “computer nut” likes
98 | UNIT 7
computers. A “tennis nut” likes
to play tennis a lot. You can
also say, We sometimes add
-aholic / -oholic to words. A
LANGUAGE TIP: Compound
B Read the article. Check your
“chocoholic” likes chocolate
nouns
answer in A. Write 3–4 key
a lot. A “shopaholic” is always
words about each type of
shopping. Put students into
Compound nouns are formed
person. 10 min
© National Geographic Learning
pairs to discuss and choose
from two words (for example,
their answer.
party and animal) that are put
Have students read the article.
together to form a new word with
Do they still agree with the
Use key words to predict.
a different meaning (a “party
answer they gave in A? As
Sometimes we may only
animal” is a person who likes to
they read, have them write
have a word or a phrase (for
socialize and go to parties). Many,
down key words that are
example, couch potato) about
but not all, compound nouns are
important to each person’s
a reading passage. Even with
formed by putting two nouns
profile. Students should know
that, students can learn to use
together.
that they don’t have to write
the information they have to
down every single word.
predict what they will read.
Optionally, you could give

98 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 74 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 199 ────────

students more practice with
skimming by giving them only
two to three minutes to read
quickly and complete the task.

C Now compare your answers
with a partner. 10 min
Have students work with
a partner and check their
answers (they should’ve
checked the box for “the
couch potato”). They should
also compare key words with
their partner. Have each pair
write a sentence for each
profile that describes the
person. After they’ve finished,
call on individual students to
say their sentences: The couch
potato stays on the couch. He
isn’t busy. / The health nut is
busy during the week and on
the weekend.

THE PARTY ANIMAL
For you, the weekend is all about fun—and
THE HEALTH NUT
D Read the article again. Match
lots of it. Your night starts at 9:00 or 10:00.
You want to get busy and do things! You usually
the people on the left to the
You go dancing or go to a party with friends.
wake up early (yes, even on the weekend) and
activities on the right. 10 min
Then you go home late at night and sleep
go for a walk, a run, or a bike ride. All week,
Have your students read
late the next day. Then you wake up in the
you’re sitting and looking at a computer screen.
through the items and match
afternoon and do it all again! 61
On the weekend, it’s time to exercise!
their answers. Then they
should read the article again to
D Read the article again. Match the people on
E What type of weekend person are you?
check their answers.
the left to the activities on the right.
Check (✓) your answer.
a. check emails    a couch potato
b. go dancing
a health nut
E Personalize the text. What
1. the couch potato    c. go for a run
a party animal
type of weekend person are
e, f
2. the health nut    d. go to a party
you? Check (✓) your answer.
a workaholic
c, g
3. the party animal    e. play video games
10–15 min
a mix of two types:
b, d, f
4. the workaholic    f. sleep late
the
a, h
Based on what students have
g. wake up early
and the
read about the four types, have
h. work
them choose the one that best
F Explain your answer to a partner.
fits them. (Note that one of the
Lesson B | 99
choices students are given
is “a mix of two types.”) Write
on the board: I’m like . . . and
I’m different from . . . . Say, I’m
Personalize the text. Getting    F Explain your answer to a
like the party animal. I like to
your students to compare    partner. 5–10 min
spend time with my friends
themselves to a person or    Put students into pairs. Have
on the weekend. I’m different
© National Geographic Learning
situation they’ve read about    them explain how they are
from the party animal, too.
is a way to personalize the    similar to, and different from,
I don’t go dancing or go to
text. When you do this,    one of the types.
parties with my friends. Ask,
your students will be more
What type are you? How are
motivated to engage with the
you the same? How are you
material, to use the vocabulary,
different? Have students make
and may be able to retain the
some notes. Optional: Give
information better later on.
them the sentences about the
party animal (above) and have
students write out sentences
about their “type.”

Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson B | 99

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 75 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 200 ────────

LISTENING

A Look at the photo. Where are the people? What are they doing?

B Listen for main points. Read the sentences and guess the answers.
Then listen and check your answers. 62

1. The main activity at Daybreaker is eating / dancing.
2. It finishes at 6:00 / 9:00 in the morning / evening.
3. It is / isn’t on the weekend.

C Listen again. Complete the sentences. 62
dancing
1. Kim is going .
three
2. Daybreaker lasts for hours.
hard
3. Everyone is dancing .
coffee
4. People drink to stay awake.
work
5. After the party, the people go to .
happy
6. They feel and have more energy.

D Answer the questions with a partner.
1. What things do you see at a Daybreaker party?
✓ ✓ ✓
a DJ smiling people tired dancers unhealthy snacks

2. What type of person doesn’t enjoy Daybreaker parties? Explain your answer.

a couch potato a health nut a party animal

3. Do you want to go to a Daybreaker party? Why or why not?

Taking a break and
having fun at a party

© National Geographic Learning

100 | UNIT 7

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 76 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 201 ────────

LANGUAGE TIP: -er / -or suffix
LISTENING
The suffix -er / -or is used to refer to people
WARM-UP 5 min
and the actions they do: a teacher teaches, an
instructor instructs. In this case, the party is called
Write on the board go __ a party and have students
daybreaker because it’s for people who welcome
fill in the missing word. Say, We’re going to talk
the day—it’s for people who gather at daybreak.
about parties. Ask, When do people have parties?
and have students tell you the days of the week
and the times. Ask, What kinds of parties are there?
C Listen again. Complete the sentences.
Brainstorm a list of parties and put them on the
62 5–10 min
board: birthday party, graduation party, dinner
party, dance party, etc. Ask, What time are these
Have students read through the sentences and
parties? Have students share their ideas with the
circle any words they don’t know. Assist with
class: Dinner parties are in the evening. Birthday
vocabulary as necessary. Then play the audio
parties start around five or six o’clock. Dance
and have students write their answers. Go over
parties are on the weekend.
the answers as a class.

D Answer the questions with a partner. 5–10 min
A Look at the photo. Where are the people? What
are they doing? 5 min
Put students into pairs to first answer questions
1–2. (If they are not sure about the answers to
Put students in pairs and have them take turns
item 1, you can play the audio for them again.)
describing what they see in the photo. Possible
Go over the answers as a class. For item 2, have
sentences: The man is playing the drums. He’s
students explain their answer: A couch potato
wearing a T-shirt. The people are dancing. It’s a
likes to sleep late and watch TV. He / She isn’t
dance party. It’s nighttime. Everyone is having fun.
active. I don’t think a couch potato likes parties.
Give students the language they’ll need to
B Listen for main points. Read the sentences and
complete item 3: I want / don’t want to go . . . .
guess the answers. Then listen and check your
Have them explain: I don’t like to wake up early. /
answers. 62 10 min
I like to dance.
Write the word daybreak on the board. Draw a
picture of the sun coming up over the horizon
EXTRA! Plan your own dance party 20 min
and say, It’s morning. We can see the sun. It’s
Have your students plan their own party. First, give
“daybreak.” This listening is about a party called
them the following information to complete:
“Daybreaker.” Write the word on the board
(see Language Tip). Have students read the
Party name:
sentences in B and guess the answers.
The party is on in the . / It’s from
Play the audio and have students check their
to .
answers. Go over the answers as a class. Next,
At the party, people eat . / They drink . /
put students into pairs and have them close their
Everyone is .
books. Each student should ask their partner to
explain what the listening is about, using their
Next, they should make an invitation for their party.
own words. The summary can be very basic:
On the invitation, they should include white space
Daybreaker is a dance party. It’s different. It’s
for writing. Have them post their invitation on the
during the week and it’s in the morning.
wall. Students should walk around the room and
read the invitations. When they find a party they
Listen for main points. It’s easy to get lost in a
want to attend, they should sign their name. Which
listening comprehension exercise: students get
party is most popular?
hung up on a random word or phrase they don’t
know and then panic. Listening for main points
helps to give them something to focus on. Once
© National Geographic Learning
they have the “big picture,” they’ll be more able
to focus on the details the next time they listen.

Summarize. After students have the main
points, they can organize them into a summary.
When you write a summary, choose your words
carefully. It should be short and to the point,
giving an overview of the content. A summary
should be in the student’s own words: It’s their
interpretation of the main points.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson B | 100a

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 77 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 202 ────────

the questions and write out their answers. Go
GRAMMAR
over the answers as a class.
WARM-UP 5–10 min
This lesson focuses on forming Wh- questions in the
TEACHING OPTION: Unscramble
sentences 10–15 min
simple present. Key points:
Do this exercise to get students out of their seats
• Students have explicitly studied questions with
and interacting with one another. Write each of the
where, who, and when up to this point. They will
words or phrases in items 1–4 of B (Ava, work, in
add what to the list in this lesson.
the afternoon, does, go out with, etc.) on a sheet
• These are Wh- questions about an object.
of paper and mix the papers up. Hand out one
paper to a student or pair of students. They will then
• Students may need reminding to insert do / does
try to find the other students who have the words
after the Wh- word.
that make up their questions. (Students can keep
Write these four words on the board: where, who,
their books open for this exercise.) For example,
when, and what. Put students into pairs. Give them a
if they have the word what, they’re going to look
couple of minutes to write two questions for each of
for students who have the words she, do, in the
the four words (eight total). As this is the Warm-Up,
afternoon, and does so that they can complete
the questions can be as simple or complex as they
item 3. Once students have found their partners,
like. Have students take turns asking and answering
they should sit together as a group. Call on each
the questions with their partners.
group to come to the front of the class and stand
in the correct order so that everyone can read their
A Read the Unit 7, Lesson B Grammar Reference
question. They should then say the question and
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
answer it.
the exercises below. 10 min
If you have assigned the Grammar Reference
C Cover up B. Read Ava’s Sunday schedule. Write
as homework, go over students’ work in class
four questions about it. Then ask and answer the
now. Read through the sentences in the chart
questions with a partner. 10 min
together. Point out the short answers and that
For this exercise, it’s important that students
you don’t have to repeat the entire sentence in
don’t look at the previous exercise (because you
your answer: Where do you go on the weekend?
want to see if they can form questions on their
On the weekend, I go to the park.
own). There is more than one possible answer
Students are already familiar with the formation
for each item. After students have come up with
of Yes / No questions, so write it in a chart. Then
their own questions, put them in pairs to ask their
insert the Wh- question below it in the chart, so
partner. Come back together and have individual
that students can see the similar word order. In
students tell you what they wrote for each item.
this way, students can clearly see that the object
(restaurant) is what’s being asked about by the
D Complete the sentences about a classmate.
question word (Where):
10 min
Do you go to a    on the
Put students into pairs. Students should ask their
restaurant weekend?
partner questions (Where do you live? Who do
you live with? etc.) to complete the information
Where do you go on the
about them.
weekend?

Write the word study on the board. Ask individual
E Ask a partner about his or her classmate. Listen
students, Do you study on the weekend? Ask them
to the answers. Can you guess the person’s
Wh- questions as well: Who do you study with?
name? 10 min
Where do you study? When do you study? Next,
Students should find a new partner. They should
ask a second set of students questions about
take turns asking questions about the person
what they just heard: When does she study? Who
© National Geographic Learningin D (Where does she live? Who does he live
does he study with? Finally, have students practice
with?). Finally, they should guess the identity of
asking each other these questions.
the classmate.

B Read Ava’s Saturday schedule. Unscramble
questions 1–4. Start each item with a question
word. Then ask and answer the questions with a
partner. 10 min
Read the information in the box about Ava’s
Saturday schedule. Have students unscramble

101a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 78 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 203 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 7, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
exercises. Then do the exercises below.

THE SIMPLE PRESENT: WH- QUESTIONS
Short answers
Question word do / does Subject Main verb
Where do you go
Where do you go on the weekend?
on the weekend?
What does she do after school?
To the park.
When do classes start?
The park.
Who do you study with?

B Read Ava’s Saturday schedule. Unscramble questions 1–4. Start each item with a
question word. Then ask and answer the questions with a partner.

On Saturday, Ava . . .
• works in an office from 9:00 to 3:30.
• goes to the gym in the afternoon.
• goes out with her friends at night.

1. Ava / work / does / when
When does Ava work (She works) from
?
9:00 to 3:30.
2. does / work / where / she
Where does she work (She works) in
?
an office.
3. she / what / do / in the afternoon / does
What does she do in the afternoon She goes to
?
the gym.
4. who / at night / Ava / does / go out with
Who does Ava go out with at night (She goes out
?
with) her friends.

C Cover up B. Read Ava’s Sunday schedule. Write four questions about it. Then ask
and answer the questions with a partner.

On Sunday, Ava . . .
• wakes up at 10:00.
• goes for a bike ride in the park in the afternoon.
• studies with her classmates in the evening.

When does Ava wake up? (She wakes up) at 10:00.
1. (when)
What does she do in the afternoon? She goes for a bike ride.
2. (what)
Where does she go? (She goes) to the park.
3. (where)
© National Geographic LearningWho does she study with? (She studies with) her classmates.
4. (who)

D Complete the sentences about a classmate.
1. He / She lives .
2. He / She lives with .
3. He / She studies with .
4. He / She goes on the weekend.

E Ask a partner about his or her classmate. Listen to the answers. Can you guess
the person’s name?
Lesson B | 101

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 79 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 204 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Use the question words in the box. Complete the six questions.

what when where who
When /
1. do you go for a walk?
Where 4. Where do you live?
2. do you do for fun?
What 5. What do you talk with your friends about?
3. do you study with?
Who 6. When / do you do your homework?
Where

B Work with a partner. Ask and answer the questions in A.

C WRITING Work with the same partner. Write your own six questions. Use the
verbs in A or your own ideas.

Example: When do you wake up?

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

D Join another pair to play a memory game. Students A and B are one team.
Students C and D are another team.

1. Student A asks Student C all six questions from C. Student C answers. Student
B listens closely, but doesn’t write anything down.

Examples: When do you wake up? / I wake up at 7:00.
What do you watch on TV? / I watch dramas.

2. How many answers can Student B remember? Now Student A asks the six
questions again to Student B.

Examples: When does she wake up? / She wakes up at 7:00.
What does she watch on TV? / I can’t remember!

E Play the game again.
1. This time Student C asks his or her questions from C. Student A answers.
Student D listens and has to remember the answers. Follow the same steps
in D.

2. Keep playing until every student gets a chance to ask questions.
© National Geographic Learning
7B GOALS Now I can . . .
1. Yes, I can.
Talk about weekend activities
2. Mostly, yes.
Ask and answer information questions
3. Not yet.

102 | UNIT 7

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 80 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 205 ────────

TEACHING TIP: Making writing less intimidating
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
It can be daunting for learners at this level to come
WARM-UP 5–10 min
up with their own questions “from scratch.” One way
to make the task easier is to give students ample
Have students keep their books closed. Start out
material that they can use as a model. In this case,
with a review of both Yes / No and Wh- question
students have the questions in A as well as the
forms. First, write the following phrases on the
Warm-Up exercise to look back on. It can also be
board. Don’t write the words in parentheses yet:
helpful to pair students who are more challenged by
watch TV (what TV shows) / go shopping (where) /
the task with peers who are more advanced.
wake up late (when) / go out with friends (where) /
have homework (what kind of) / spend time with
D Join another pair to play a memory game.
family (who). Students are going to make Yes / No
Students A and B are one team. Students C and
questions, but you should model the first one. Ask,
D are another team. 15–20 min
Do you watch TV? After a student answers, ask
another student about the first student: Does she
This memory game will give students a lot of
watch TV? Point at the different phrases and have
practice with asking and answering Wh- questions
students make questions.
that use both do and does. There are two teams:
Students A/B vs. C/D. Student A asks Student C
Next, write the words in parentheses next to the
six questions (like this one) for the first round:
phrases. Ask students Yes / No questions followed
Student A → Student C When do you relax?
by Wh- questions: Do you watch TV? What TV
C’s answer: On the weekend.
shows do you watch? Have students practice
asking each other the questions. Don’t erase the
For the second round, Student A asks B
board, as students may refer back to it when they
questions about the same information to see if
do C.
they can remember what they heard:

Student A → Student B When does she relax?
A Use the question words in the box. Complete the
B’s answer: She relaxes on the weekend.
six questions. 5 min
Have students read through the sentences. Tell
them to use the words in the box to complete the
E Play the game again. 10–15 min
sentences. Write what, when, where, and who
Now, Student C gets a chance to ask Student A,
on the board. As you go over the answers, point
and then Student D six questions. Who has the
at each question word and have students raise
best memory? Students can play the game again
their hand if they used it in their sentence. Then
with different combinations of pairs of students.
have students read their answers aloud: Where
Optional: If the game is too easy, you can make
do you go for a walk? (Note: Some of the items
it more challenging by having students add an
have more than one possible answer.)
extra piece of information when they answer
each question.
B Work with a partner. Ask and answer the
Diagnostics
questions in A. 5–10 min
Check students’ competencies as follows:
Students should get into pairs and stay with this
• Are students forming their questions correctly
partner for the remaining exercises. Students
with do / does?
should take turns asking and answering the
questions from A.
• Are they responding to the questions correctly?

C WRITING Work with the same partner. Write your
7B
GOALS
own six questions. Use the verbs in A or your own
Review students’ self-assessment in the
ideas. 10–15 min
goals box. Point out to students where in the
© National Geographic Learning
Give students time to write out six questions. You
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
can decide how much “original” material you
they can review those exercises to improve
want them to come up with. For example, you
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
might allow students to use two questions from
Talk about weekend activities: Vocabulary,
the ones they have already seen along with four
page 97, A–C; Reading, pages 98–99,
new questions of their own. (They should use
C, E, and F; Global Voices, page 103, A–E
each question word at least once.) Encourage
them to look back at the Vocabulary pages in this
Ask and answer information questions:
unit for ideas when writing their questions.
Grammar, page 101, A–C, E; Active English,
page 102, A–E

Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson B | 102a

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 81 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 206 ────────

LANGUAGE TIP: Sequencing
GLOBAL VOICES
Give students some language to talk about a
WARM-UP 5 min
sequence of events. Write the underlined words
on the board and have students use them in the
Write on the board, my typical day. Tell students
following order: First, she wakes up. Next, she goes
about your day: During the week, I wake up at . . . .
to work. After work, she watches TV. Then, she
I get dressed and come to school. Then say,
works out. Finally, she goes to sleep.
Weekends are different. Tell students your weekend
schedule. Call on individual students to recite back
to you one fact about your day: You wake up at . . . .
E Ask and answer the questions in A with a partner.
How much can they remember?
5–10 min

Have students ask and answer the two questions
A In the video, people answer the two questions
from A with a partner. To give them more
below. Guess what things they say. Tell a partner.
practice, have your students move around the
5 min
classroom, asking individual classmates the
questions.
Say, This video is about people and their
weekend plans. What do they do on the
weekend? Can you guess? Have students get
EXTRA! Celebrity interview 15–20 min
into pairs and brainstorm a list of words they
To give students more practice, you can do this
think they might hear (relax, go shopping, spend
exercise in addition to, or instead of, E. Show
time with friends). Have them tell you some of
students some pictures of celebrities. Ask, Who’s
their ideas. Say, You’re also going to hear about
this? What’s their typical day like? What do they
each person’s typical day.
do on the weekend? Have students say different
sentences about the person. Put students into pairs,
B What do people do on the weekend? Watch the
with one student being the interviewer and the other
video. Circle T for true or F for false. 5–10 min
one being the celebrity. Give the interviewer some
language to get started:
Have students read the sentences. Then play
the video and have them circle their answers.
Hi, I’m (name). I’m talking to (famous person).
When you go over the answers, have students
(Name), your fans want to know: what is your typical
ask each one as a question: Does Meki go out
day like? The “celebrity” should answer and then
with her friends? Another student can answer,
the interviewer can follow up with What do you do
No, she doesn’t. Say, That’s correct. Meki doesn’t
on the weekend?
go out with her friends. The answer is false. For
The celebrity should say 3–4 things to answer each
item 4, simply have students ask, Does Lingo
question. Students can look up information about
like to sleep?
the celebrity or they can make it up. You can also
do this exercise in groups of four with one student
C Read the lists. There is one extra item in each list.
interviewing three other famous people, who will
Watch the video. Cross out the extra item.
each answer the questions briefly. That way the
5–10 min
speaking time is spread among students more
Read through the items in the two lists. For the
equally. Have different pairs or groups perform their
less familiar items (go to sleep, work out, hang
interviews for the class.
out with), call on individual students to make
sentences using the words: I go to sleep late.
When you play the video, it may be helpful for
NOTES
students to circle or check (✓) the words they
hear. They should then cross out the one that
isn’t mentioned. Check answers as a class.

© National Geographic Learning
D Watch again. What are Isabel and Mireille’s typical
days like? Put the items in C in order from 1 to 5.
5–10 min

Now students are going to listen to two people
talk about their daily schedule. (You may have
to play this section more than once because the
items come in close succession.) Have students
number the items in order. Then have them
check their answers with a partner.

103a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 82 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 207 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A In the video, people answer the two questions below. Guess what things they say. Tell a partner.
1. What do you do on the weekend?
2. What is your typical day* like?

*Your typical day means what you do every day.

B What do people do on the weekend? Watch the video. Circle T for true or F for false.
1. Meki goes out with her friends. T F
2. Meki and her family watch movies and play sports. T F
3. Isabel goes swimming every weekend. T F
4. Lingo doesn’t like to sleep. T F
5. For vacation, he likes to go to the beach. T F

C Read the lists. There is one extra item in each list. Watch the video. Cross out the extra item.
My typical day
Isabel Mireille
get dressed    go to school
5 3
go to sleep1    go to the gym
2 5
go to work    hang out with3 friends
1 2
wake up    have breakfast
3 4
watch TV    have dinner
4 1
work out2    wake up

1Go to sleep means go to bed.
2Work out means exercise.
3Hang out with means spend time with.

D Watch again. What are Isabel and Mireille’s typical days like? Put the items in C in order from 1 to 5.

E Ask and answer the questions in A with a partner.

In some countries, like Cuba and
Brazil, people play dominoes every
week and, even, every day!

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 103

WLTB_INT_U07_ptg01.indd 83 23/05/21 8:28 PM

──────── Page 208 ────────

UNIT 8
In November, people in Mexico
remember family members on the
ABOUT THE PHOTO    Day of the Dead. Sometimes, there
In Mexico, Día de Muertos, Day    are parades and people dress up
of the Dead, is celebrated on    in costumes, too.
November 1 and 2. On these
days, Mexicans remember their
deceased family and friends.
Traditionally, people visit their
relatives’ graves, which they
decorate with flowers. They also
take food and gifts to leave on
the grave. Some families arrive
at the cemetery during the day
and spend the night at the grave.
There is often food and music as
well. Families also build altars in
their homes that they decorate
with photos of their dead, pan de
muerto (a special sweet bread),
skull-shaped sugar candy,
candles, flowers, and salt. The
best-known ceremonies are
located on Mexico’s tiny island
of Janitzio, Michoacan, and in
small towns outside of the city of
Oaxaca. This photo shows three
young women sporting costumes
and make up to celebrate the Day
of the Dead.

INTRODUCE THE THEME
In this unit, students discuss a
variety of special occasions, from
birthday and holiday celebrations
to cultural and arts-related
festivals.

In Lesson A, students learn how
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
to talk about important dates and
/ Talk about important dates    / State when and how long an
they practice listening for specific
/ Say you know or don’t know something    event is
information (in this case, numbers
/ Describe what happens at a
festival
and dates). They also study and
practice asking Wh- questions
with prepositions.
their lives or from their country.
such as three women in blue
In Lesson B, students learn
Students will learn how to say
dresses. Then have students
the vocabulary for describing
dates and months in Lesson
read the caption and answer
and asking about festivals and
A, but you can also ask if any
the two questions. Make sure
celebrations. They read about the
of them know how to say the
everyone understands that Day of
© National Geographic Learning
Burning Man festival, and they
dates and months for any of their
the Dead happens in Mexico and
write a description of a festival.
suggestions. Students at this level
in November. Clarify the meaning
may have some knowledge of
of the key words for answering
this vocabulary. If any key words
question 2, which are parades,
WARM-UP 5 min
arise, write them on the board.
dress up, and costumes. Based
With books closed, write special
on some of the suggestions in the
occasions on the board. Explain
Warm-Up for special occasions,
Look at the photo. Answer the
that special occasions are
you could ask students if they
questions. 5 min
important days in our lives; for
ever have parades in the streets
example, a birthday or a festival.
Have students look at the photo
or dress up in costumes.
Elicit from students any examples
and ask them to say what they
of special days and occasions in
can see with words and phrases

104 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 8

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 60 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 209 ────────

8
WARM-UP VIDEO
About the video
This video shows the annual Ice
Music Festival in Geilo, Norway,
SPECIAL
and the preparations that go into
the event. The ice is harvested
from specific regions and then
OCCASIONS
brought to the village on sleds
and snowmobiles; there, ice
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
QUESTIONS.
sculptors create the instruments
1. The women in the photo are dressed up for the
for the musicians to play at
Day of the Dead. When and where does it happen?
the festival. The concerts are
2. What happens on the Day of the Dead?
in an amphitheater made from
snow. The ice is so cold that the
WARM-UP VIDEO
musicians need to wear gloves;
A Look up the words in your dictionary. What do
without gloves, they can only play
you think the video is about?
for five minutes or they hurt their
cello ice
hands. The first Ice Music Festival
festival instrument
took place in 2006 and, according
to its website, it is the only festival
B Read the sentences. Look up any words you
don’t know in a dictionary. Then watch the
of its kind in the world.
video. Circle the correct answers.

1. This happens in Norway / Iceland.
2. They play / sell ice instruments.
A Look up the words in your
3. It looks like his real piano / cello.
dictionary. What do you think
4. The man plays music for five minutes / hours.
the video is about? 10 min
5. The music is / isn’t beautiful.
Give students time to check
6. They play music in a cool / cold place.
the meaning of the words in
7. The ice goes to a ski / big village.
the box. They can either use a
8. They make / cut the ice.
dictionary to check or they can
C Use the words in the box to complete the
search for the words online and
sentences. Do you like cold places? Do you
find images of them. Note that
like ice music?
when they look up the word
cold instruments music
instrument, they might find its
ice listen village
meaning as a tool or item of
cold
1. Norway is a place.
specialist equipment, so you
music
2. They have an ice festival there.
could suggest they look up
ice
3. People take to a ski
musical instrument. Afterwards,
village
.
ask some students to say what
instruments
4. They make from the ice.
they think the connection is
listen
5. People like to to the music.
between the four words and
what the video is about.

C Use the words in the box to
B Read the sentences. Look
complete the sentences. Do
up any words you don’t know
you like cold places? Do you
in a dictionary. Then watch
like ice music? 10–15 min
the video. Circle the correct
answers. 10–15 min
Have students complete
© National Geographic Learning
the sentences, which are a
Give students some time to
summary of the Ice Music
read the eight sentences and
Festival and what happens
check their understanding of
there. Check the final answers
the two choices of words. Play
as a class and then have
the video and ask students to
students discuss the two
circle the correct word. Check
questions in pairs, saying if
answers as a class by calling
they like cold places and the
on individual students to share
ice music. Finally, ask some
the answer they chose for
students to report back on
each item.
their opinions.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 8 | 105

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 61 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 210 ────────

8A TAKING TIME OFF

VOCABULARY

A Practice saying the months and seasons of the year with a partner. Then write the name of the
season next to the correct month for your country.

Month Season Special occasion
winter
spring
January
summer
February
fall
March
April
WORD BANK
May
There are four
weeks in a
June
month.
July
There are
twelve months
August
in a year.
September
October
November
December

B Work with a partner.
The Yi Peng Festival
1. In two minutes, name as many holidays and festivals as you can.
is in November.
2. Write each one next to the correct month.
Is it your
favorite?
3. Tell another pair about your list. Which ones are your favorites?

At the Yi Peng Festival in Chiang
Mai, Thailand, people light
lanterns and make wishes.

© National Geographic Learning

106 | UNIT 8

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 62 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 211 ────────

B Work with a partner. 15–20 min
8A TAKING TIME OFF
To get students started with this exercise,
you could ask, In which month is New Year’s
VOCABULARY
Day? Then have students read the steps of the
exercise. Assign them to pairs and have them
WARM-UP 5 min
list as many holidays as they can in two minutes.
Write the lesson title on the board: Taking time
Then have them write the holidays in the correct
off. Explain to students that you “take time off”
months.
from work when it’s a holiday. Make sure that they
understand that a holiday is a special day and it is
Next, have pairs join to make groups of four
also a day when people usually do not work or go
and share their lists. Have students tell their
to school. Then ask, What is an important holiday
group which holiday is their favorite, and why.
in your country? Give examples (New Year’s Day,
Afterwards, call on individual students to say
Independence Day, etc.).
their favorite holiday.

A Practice saying the months and seasons of the
CULTURE TIP: The Yi Peng Festival in Chiang
year with a partner. Then write the name of the
Mai, Thailand
season next to the correct month for your country.
The festival shown in the photo can happen on
15–20 min
different dates each year because it happens when
Students will probably find some of the months
there is a full moon. However, it is always around the
difficult to say, so begin by drilling them and
middle of November. The festival of Yi Peng (or the
have students listen and repeat. Then have
Lantern Festival) takes place in Chiang Mai, which
students practice saying them with a partner.
is a large city in northern Thailand. Lighting the
Stronger students can test each other; one
lantern and letting it fly off is a symbol of letting go
student covers the list and says the months, and
of any bad luck from the previous year.
the other student checks.

Next, have students work alone and write the four
EXTRA! Birthday months 5 min
seasons next to the months for their country. At
Introduce the question, When’s your birthday? Have
the end, they can compare their answers for the
students write all of the months in their notebook
seasons with a partner or with the whole class.
and then have them move around the classroom
If your students are from the same country, then
and try to find a different person for each month.
you can check if everyone agrees when seasons
start and end. If students are from different parts
of the world, then it will be interesting for them to
TEACHING TIP: Warm-ups, wake-ups, and
tell the class about seasons in their own country
wrap-ups
compared to others.
Warm-up exercises help students activate prior
knowledge in anticipation of a new topic, review
PRONUNCIATION TIP: Stressed syllables
previous topics, and in general get prepared for
It might help students to recognize the stressed
class. Similarly, during the class, short wake-up
syllable in each month. One option is to say
exercises are useful after a period of concentration
the months aloud and have them underline the
or a difficult exercise, or as a break between topics.
stressed syllable: January, February, March, April,
Then, at the end of the class, a brief wrap-up
May, June, July, August, September, October,
exercise is helpful to close the class. The wrap-up
November, December
can be a quick review of the topic, specific
vocabulary, or grammar from the class. It should
be an exercise that marks the end of the class and
EXTRA! Discussion questions 5 min
leaves students feeling that they learned something
and, ideally, that it was enjoyable. Warm-ups, wake-
As a brief follow-up discussion, write these
ups, and wrap-ups should always be short, five- to
questions on the board and have students ask and
© National Geographic Learningten-minute exercises. Exercises such as Extra!
answer them in pairs.
Birthday months and Extra! Birthday line-up in this
1. What is your favorite month?
lesson (page 107a) are examples of appropriate
exercises.
2. Which month do you normally go on vacation?

Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson A | 106a

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 63 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 212 ────────

Have students listen to the first part of a
LISTENING
conversation in which Pedro changes the
dates on his plane ticket. Before listening, have
WARM-UP 5 min
students read the questions and say what type
With books closed, list the following numbers, which
of language they need to listen for (e.g., spelling
students will now be familiar with, on the board:
and cities). Also refer them to the verb return in
1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Then write the abbreviation for each
the Word Bank and check that they understand
ordinal number next to its related number, like this:
its meaning.
1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th. Explain to students that when
we list things, we say numbers this way. Point to the
Listen for spelling. Students have already
ordinal numbers and ask, Do you know how to say
been introduced to spelling in Unit 1, so this is a
these numbers? Find out what students know.
chance to review this important skill.

LANGUAGE TIP: Cardinal and ordinal numbers
C Listen for dates. What is Pedro’s schedule?
Listen and complete the chart. 65 5–10 min
Cardinal numbers are used to count (one, two,
three, four, five, . . .). Ordinal numbers are used to
Now play the next part of the conversation in which
talk about the position of a given item in a sequence
they discuss the dates in Pedro’s schedule and
(first, second, third, fourth, fifth, . . .).
update them from the old dates to the new dates.
There are five floors in the building. My apartment is
Listen for dates. Now that students can
on the fifth floor.
recognize cardinal and ordinal numbers, they
need to listen specifically for them in the audio.
There are twelve months in a year. December is the
Remind students to keep listening even if they
twelfth month.
don’t understand some parts of the conversation.
Explain that we often write dates with cardinal
numbers but say them as ordinal numbers. For
CULTURE TIP: Writing dates
example, we might write, New Year’s Day is January 1,
In the US, the month is written first: May 26, 2021, is
but we say, New Year’s Day is January first.
5/26/21.

In the UK and Europe, the day is written first: May
A PRONUNCIATION: Ordinal numbers Look at
26, 2021, is 26/5/21.
the dates. Notice how we write them. Practice
In some Asian countries, the year is written first:
saying the dates with a partner. Then listen and
May 26, 2021, is 21/26/5.
repeat the dates and ordinal numbers.
If your students work in business, they should be
63 10–15 min
aware of these differences.
Having introduced the idea of saying two types
of numbers in the Warm-Up, let students read
how we write dates and then try saying them.
D Listen and complete the sentences. 66 5–10 min
Next, play the audio so students can check
Finally, have students listen to the whole
their pronunciation and then repeat what they
conversation from beginning to end and write in
hear. Play it at least twice so everyone becomes
the missing words.
confident saying the ordinal numbers.

E Answer the questions with a partner. 10 min
TEACHING TIP: /θ/
Tell students to look at the new dates in C. Have
The /θ/ or th sound, which appears in many ordinal
them read the questions and answer them with
numbers, is difficult for some students whose
a partner. Call on several pairs to share their
native language does not contain this sound. To
answers with the class and compare.
pronounce it correctly, the tongue must be between
the front teeth, not merely touching the back of the
EXTRA! Birthday line-up 5–10 min
teeth. Demonstrate this for students and have them
© National Geographic Learning
practice with comically exaggerated pronunciation
Reteach the question When’s your birthday? and
in order to notice the sensation of the tongue
teach the answer: My birthday is on (June 18th).
between the teeth. Don’t expect students to achieve
Have all students stand up, tell them to form a line
this sound the first time—though some may—but
in the order of their birthdays, and show them where
show them how to approximate it so it’s intelligible.
January 1 should stand. Once they are all in line,
have them say their birthdays in order (and using
cardinal numbers): My birthday is on ___. (For large
B Listen for spelling. Pedro is flying home for
classes, you may want to divide the class in halves
summer vacation. Listen and write his last name.
and have each line up on one side of the room.)
Then circle the correct answers. 64 10 min

107a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 64 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 213 ────────

The Monument to the
Revolution in Mexico City

LISTENING

A PRONUNCIATION: Ordinal numbers Look at the dates. Notice how we write them. Practice
saying the dates with a partner. Then listen and repeat the dates and ordinal numbers. 63

How to write dates How to say dates
first sixth twentieth
January 1 January first
second seventh thirtieth
third eighth
September 2 September second
fourth ninth
July 23 July twenty-third
fifth tenth
July 30 July thirtieth

B Listen for spelling. Pedro is flying home for summer vacation. Listen and write his last name.
Then circle the correct answers. 64
L o p e z
Last name:
WORD BANK
First name: P E D R O
return
1. Where is he now? Las Vegas Mexico City Vancouver
2. Where is he going to? Las Vegas Mexico City Vancouver

C Listen for dates. What is Pedro’s schedule? Listen and complete the chart. 65
Old dates New dates
July 23 July 30
Leaving
August 27 September 4
Returning

© National Geographic Learning
D Listen and complete the sentences. 66
change    day
1. I want to make a .    4. That isn’t good.
right    expensive
2. Yes, that’s .    5. Those days are less .
ticket    great
3. Yes, with your , that’s fine.    6. Have a trip, Mr. Lopez.

E Answer the questions with a partner.
1. Look at the new dates in C. Are these good dates to travel in your country?
2. What are the best months to travel in your country?

Lesson A | 107

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 65 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 214 ────────

On St. Patrick’s Day,
everyone wears green.

St. is pronounced “saint.”
SPEAKING i

A Skim the conversation. Circle any words you don’t know. Look them up in your dictionary.
Tony: It’s so crowded!    Lena: I have no idea. Let me see . . . It says,

Lena: And look! There’s a parade over there.    “St. Patrick’s Day is on March 17.”

Tony: Is today a holiday?    Tony: That’s today.

Lena: I’m not sure. Let me check my phone.    Lena: It also says, “On St. Patrick’s Day, people
OK, it says it’s St. Patrick’s Day . . .    celebrate all things Irish.”

Tony: St. Patrick’s Day? What’s that?    Tony: Well, it looks like fun. Come on, let’s
watch the parade!

B Listen to the conversation in A. Then answer the
SPEAKING STRATEGY 68
questions. 67
Saying you know or don’t know something
1. What happens on St. Patrick’s Day? 2. When is it?
Is today a holiday?
People celebrate all things Irish. March 17
Yes, it is. / No, it isn’t. (certain)
Maybe. (less certain)
C Practice the conversation in A with a partner.
I’m not sure. (not certain at all)
I don’t know. (don’t know)
D Answer the questions below with a partner. Use
I have no idea.
the Speaking Strategy to help you.

1. When is Mexico’s Independence Day?
3. Where does Children’s Day happen on May 5?
a. May 5
a. in Italy and Greece
b. August 24
b. in Chile and Peru
© National Geographic Learning
c. September 16
c. in Korea and Japan
2. Where is the New Year called Hogmanay?
4. What holiday is on October 31 in the United States?
a. in Russia
a. Halloween
b. in Scotland
b. Thanksgiving
c. in Iceland
c. Christmas
Where is the New Year called
Hogmanay? Is it in Russia?

E Check your answers on page 217. Who has the most correct
I don’t know. What
do you think?
answers in your class?

108 | UNIT 8

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 66 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 215 ────────

Ask students to reorder the expressions from
SPEAKING
“most certain” to “least certain.” Then tell them
to open their books and listen to and read the
WARM-UP 5–10 min
expressions listed in the Speaking Strategy. Play the
Have students look at the photo. Ask what color
audio again. Have students listen and repeat the
everyone is wearing (green). Then ask if anyone
expressions.
knows about St. Patrick’s Day. Elicit as much
information as possible.

D Answer the questions below with a partner. Use
CULTURE TIP: St. Patrick’s Day
the Speaking Strategy to help you. 10 min
St. Patrick’s Day is a festival on March 17 that
Working in pairs, have students discuss the
celebrates Irish culture. Originally it was a religious
questions about different festivals and special
celebration in Ireland, but then the Irish community
occasions. Make sure they are using the
in North America started to celebrate the day with
expressions from the Speaking Strategy to
music in the streets and parades.
express their level of certainty.

CULTURE TIP: Holidays
A Skim the conversation. Circle any words you don’t
know. Look them up in your dictionary. 5 min
Independence Day, Mexico: The day is celebrated
Give students one minute to read the conversation
with parades, singing, and fireworks. People eat a
and circle any unknown words. In addition to
dish called pozole and foods that are red, white,
using their dictionary, students could also ask a
and green—the colors of the Mexican flag.
classmate if they know a word or ask you for a
Hogmanay, Scotland: New Year’s Eve is celebrated
definition.
in Scotland with street dances and fireworks. In
a custom called first-footing, the first person who
B Listen to the conversation in A. Then answer the
comes to your house in the new year is supposed
questions. 67 5 min
to bring you special gifts for good luck in the year
ahead: salt, coal, whiskey, and a special cake.
Play the audio and have students answer the
two questions. To challenge students, have them
Children’s Day, Japan: People fly special flags that
cover the conversation in A as they listen and
look like carp (a kind of fish), one for each child
then read the conversation afterwards to check
in the family (in the past, it was only for boys). In
their answers.
the wind, the flags look like fish swimming very
forcefully, and they express wishes for the children’s
strength and happiness.
TEACHING OPTION 5 min
Before practicing the conversation in C, you could
Halloween, United States: Children dress
play Track 67 and pause it after each line so that
in costumes (such as ghosts, monsters, or
students can listen and then repeat each sentence.
cartoon characters) and go to the homes of their
neighbors saying, “Trick or treat!” to ask for candy.
Traditionally, if the neighbors didn’t give them candy
C Practice the conversation in A with a partner.
(a treat), children played a trick on them, though
10 min
nowadays this is infrequent.
Assign pairs and have students read the
conversation aloud. Then have them exchange
E Check your answers on page 217. Who has the
the roles of Tony and Lena and repeat the
most correct answers in your class? 5 min
conversation. As students talk, encourage them
to look up from the page and try to remember
Have students turn to the page and read
the lines so they look at each other.
the answers. Ask a few pairs how many they
guessed correctly.
EXTRA! Levels of certainty 68 5 min
© National Geographic Learning
EXTRA! Holiday quiz 10 min
To focus on the language in the Speaking Strategy
before starting D, tell students to close their books.
Have students work in pairs or groups to research
Then write the expressions on the board from the
other festivals and holidays and write their own quiz
book, but mixed up like this:
questions similar to those in D. Provide vocabulary
as necessary. When they have three questions,
I’m not sure.
have students join another pair or group and take
Yes, it is.
turns asking and answering each other’s questions.
I have no idea.

Maybe.

I don’t know.
Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson A | 108a

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 67 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 216 ────────

TEACHING OPTION: The flipped classroom
GRAMMAR
To open up time for in-class communication, assign
WARM-UP 10 min
the Grammar Reference exercises on page 202 as
Write on the board, St. Patrick’s Day is on Saturday.
homework. The next time class meets:
Then write four question words around the sentence:
1. Review the prepositions and their usage in the
What, When, Where, Who. Ask the class to suggest
Grammar Reference.
some questions about the sentence and about St.
Patrick’s Day. At this stage, don’t worry about the
2. Go through the exercises students did for
question using a preposition. Elicit questions such
homework; present new examples and reinforce
as, What is St. Patrick’s Day? When is it? Where
points as needed. Take questions from students.
do people celebrate it? Who celebrates it? Next,
underline the preposition on in the sentence and write
3. Turn back to page 109 and do the exercises
the question from the grammar chart on page 109
there, starting with B.
beneath it and underline the preposition at the end:

St. Patrick’s Day is on Saturday.
B Look at the photo. Read about the Namahage
What day is St. Patrick’s Day on?
festival in Japan. What do people do in the
festival? Write a sentence about it. 10 min
Explain how the preposition moves to the end in a
The aim of this exercise is for students to read a
question.
short description about the festival and to make
sure they understand the general meaning of the
GRAMMAR TIP: Prepositions
text. Deal with any questions about vocabulary
Each English preposition (in, on, at, etc.) has many
and then allow a few minutes for students to
different meanings and uses, from talking about
write a summary sentence about the text. There
time and location to appearing in phrasal verbs and
is no one correct answer to the task, so invite
idioms. You can teach certain basic rules, such as that
individual students to read their sentence aloud
we use on with days and at with time, but the variety
in order to get a few different perspectives and
of uses means that English prepositions are difficult for
to check that students have the main idea.
many learners. Mastering the different uses of each
preposition step by step is usually the most successful
TEACHING OPTION
approach. In this lesson, focus mainly on how they
change position in the question form.
Before doing C, have students read the sentences
in B again and circle any prepositions in the text.
Check the answers together as a class. This will
A Read the Unit 8, Lesson A Grammar Reference
help with the task in C.
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below. 20–30 min
If you assigned the Grammar Reference as
C Complete the questions about the festival. Use
homework, go over students’ work in class now.
the prepositions in the box. 10 min
Next, go over the chart with students and draw
Students will complete this exercise by knowing
their attention to the other examples of questions
which preposition naturally goes with a question
that have prepositions at the end.
and by also referring back to the information in
the text and finding the preposition used there.
EXTRA! Recreate the question 10–15 min
Have students compare their answers in pairs
before checking as a class.
For further practice, ask students to close their
books. Then read one of the sentences in the
chart aloud; e.g., I live in Brazil. Ask students to
D Cover B. Ask and answer the questions in C with
call out the question form for this sentence with
a partner. 10–15 min
the preposition at the end; e.g., What country do
There are different ways to structure this
you live in? After you have demonstrated this with
© National Geographic Learning
exercise. Students can cover the text and, with
two or three of the sentences and questions in
their partner, read the question aloud and try
the grammar chart, put students into pairs. One
to remember the answer without looking. While
student should have their book open and should
doing this, they could also reuse some of the
read a sentence from the grammar chart. The other
expressions from the Speaking Strategy on
student should have their book closed, listen to the
the previous page for saying if they know or
sentence, and try to recreate the question form.
don’t know the answer. Another option is for
For further challenge, once students have worked
one student to ask the questions, and the other
through all five sentences and questions in the
student to find the answer in B and reply.
grammar chart, have them take turns making a new
sentence, such as I live in Mexico City, for which
their partner has to create a question form.

109a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 68 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 217 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 8, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

WH- QUESTIONS WITH PREPOSITIONS
St. Patrick’s Day is on Saturday.
Many sentences have verbs followed by
What day is St. Patrick’s Day on?
prepositions.
The parade is at 11:00.
What time is the parade at?
When we make question forms for those
I live in Brazil.
sentences, the preposition moves to the
What country do you live in?
end of the sentence.
She lives with her parents.
Who does she live with?
He listens to hip-hop.
What kind of music does he listen to?

B Look at the photo. Read about the Namahage festival in Japan. What do people do in the festival?
Write a sentence about it.

At each house, they ask “Are there any
In the Namahage Festival, .
naughty children here?”
The Namahage festival happens in Oga City,
They listen for the names of the children and
Japan in December.
then write the names in a small book.
In the festival, men put on a namahage
Each house then gives the namahage a rice
costume.
cake as a gift.
They go to different houses in the city.
*Naughty children don’t listen to their parents.
They’re looking for naughty* children.

C Complete the questions about the festival. Use the prepositions in the box.

for in on to

in    for
1. What city is the festival ?    5. Who are they looking ?
in    for
2. What month is it ?    6. What do they listen ?
in
3. What kind of costume do the men put    7. What do they write ?
on
?
4. Which houses do the namahage go
to
?

Men dress up as
D Cover B. Ask and answer the questions in C with a partner. namahage in
Oga City, Japan.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson A | 109

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 69 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 218 ────────

Getting outdoors is one way
to spend your staycation.

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Look at the word below and answer the questions. Work with a partner.
staycation

1. “Staycation” is a new word in English. It’s a combination of two words. What two other words
does it look like?

2. What do you think it means? Write a definition here.

B Read about staycations. Rewrite your definition in A. Why do you think people take staycations?

• “Staycation” is a combination of two words: stay + vacation

• When you take a staycation, you stay in your hometown and take a short
vacation (from 1–2 days to a week). You take a break from your daily routine.

• A staycation is a chance to visit a new local place or try a new activity.

C Work with a partner. Answer the questions. Plan your own weekend staycation.
1. How are you preparing for your staycation?
Staycation activities
2. During your staycation, who are you spending time with?
relax at a park or spa
eat at a nice restaurant
3. What new place are you going to?
go to a new place
4. What place are you relaxing at?
take a class
organize your home
D Join another pair. Ask and answer questions about your staycations.
your idea:
How are you preparing for
© National Geographic Learning
your staycation? I’m turning off
my phone!

8A GOALS Now I can . . .
1. Yes, I can.
Talk about important dates
2. Mostly, yes.
Say I know or don’t know something
3. Not yet.

110 | UNIT 8

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 70 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 219 ────────

C Work with a partner. Answer the questions. Plan
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
your own weekend staycation. 10–15 min
WARM-UP 5 min
If you think students might find this task
challenging, you could begin by telling the class
With books closed, write the word vacation on
about a staycation you are thinking of taking
the board and check that everyone knows its
soon. Make sure you answer the four questions
meaning. Ask a few questions, such as Where do
in your description. Then assign pairs and tell
you normally go on vacation? What do you do on
students to start planning their own staycation.
vacation? When do you go? Elicit a few answers
Draw their attention to the list of activities they
before opening books.
might do on their staycation and clarify any
unknown words. Monitor the exercise and
A Look at the word below and answer the
prompt pairs who are having difficulty thinking
questions. Work with a partner. 5–10 min
of answers. Students should take notes as they
After doing the Warm-Up and focusing on the
work through the questions.
word vacation, students should be able to make
a good guess about the form and meaning
D Join another pair. Ask and answer questions
of staycation. Monitor students as they work
about your staycations. 10 min
together. Make suggestions as necessary, but
do not confirm their answers yet. Also refer
Move students into groups of four and have them
them to the photo and the caption with the word
take turns asking the questions in C, as well as
staycation in it, as this will help them guess the
any other questions they want to ask. Then invite
meaning. As they discuss, remind them to use
some groups to report back to the whole class
the expressions for saying how certain they are
on the type of staycations they are taking. At the
of the meaning from the Speaking Strategy on
end, ask the class to choose the most interesting
page 108.
staycation.

TEACHING OPTION
EXTRA! Write an advertisement 10–15 min
The answer to A is in B, so students might read
To continue from D, students could imagine they
ahead and find the answers. To avoid this, students
are travel companies offering staycations to local
could keep their books closed after the Warm-Up
people in the area. Ask students to write short
and you could write staycation on the board and
advertisements for the staycation company and
ask them to discuss its meaning and write the
perhaps add photos of the local area and images
definition. Then tell students to open their books
of activities you can do. Afterwards, have students
and go straight to B.
display their advertisements around the room (or
online on a class blog) and take time to read the
other advertisements.
TEACHING ONLINE
If you are teaching online, invite students to write
Diagnostics
their final definitions into the chat box of your online
Check students’ competencies as follows:
platform so they can read each other’s sentences
• Are students able to say if they know or don’t
and compare.
know the meaning of a word?
• Can they describe their plans for a staycation?
B Read about staycations. Rewrite your definition in
• Are they able to ask Wh- questions with
A. Why do you think people take staycations?
prepositions?
10–15 min

Have students compare their ideas in A with the
8A
GOALS
explanation. Allow time for them to make any
changes to their definitions and then give them
Review students’ self-assessment in the
© National Geographic Learning
time to discuss the question in pairs or small
goals box. Point out to students where
groups. To help students think of answers, you
they learned these skills in the unit. If they
could ask them to think about why someone
rated their ability below Yes, I can, they can
might choose a staycation instead of a normal
turn back to those pages and review the
vacation in which they would go further away
exercises.
from home for longer. The class’s ideas might
Talk about important dates: Vocabulary,
include people taking staycations because it’s
page 106, A–B; Listening, page 107, A;
cheaper, it doesn’t include so much travel so it’s
Grammar, page 109, A, C–D
good for the environment, it’s a way of learning
Say you know or don’t know something:
more about where you live, etc. After about five
Speaking, page 108, A–D
minutes, ask a few students to present their pair
or group’s main ideas to the class.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson A | 110a

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 71 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 220 ────────

CULTURE TIP: More famous festivals
8B BIG EVENTS
Las Fallas (Valencia, Spain): Every March, huge
paper scenes are built on the streets and then
VOCABULARY
burned on March 19.
WARM-UP 5 min
Carnival (Rio de Janeiro): People celebrate in
Write festival on the board. Elicit or provide a list
the streets with parades, colorful costumes, and
of different kinds of festivals: religious, film, music,
dancing before Lent (the forty days before Easter).
sports, harvest, food (you can explain that harvest
Jidai Matsuri (Kyoto, Japan): People dressed in
means the time when farmers finish their work for
costumes from all eras of the city’s history parade
the year). Ask students to name a festival they
through the streets.
know. You may also want to explain that sometimes
Calgary Stampede (Calgary, Canada): This is a huge
in English, festival is shortened to fest. The word
rodeo with cowboy competitions, food, and music.
fest is almost always used in combination with
another word (film fest, jazz fest, etc.).
Songkran (Thailand): People celebrate the Thai New
Year by throwing water on each other in the streets.
A Read about the Highland Games. Look up any
Dragon Boat Festival (Hong Kong): Dragon-shaped
words you don’t know. Then ask and answer the
boats filled with rowers and drummers have races.
questions with a partner. 15–20 min
Camel Fair (Pushkar, India): Thousands of camels and
Have students look at the photo, read the
their owners gather to race and celebrate their animals.
caption, and describe what they can see. If
students have seen the word hammer before,
B Think of another sporting event or sports festival.
they will know that it’s a tool you use for hitting
Tell a partner about it. Use the questions in A.
nails. The word hammer in this context is similar,
15–20 min
as it refers to the long stick with the heavy weight
at the end. Tell the class that the photo is from
If necessary, brainstorm a list of sporting events
Scotland and find out if anyone in the class
or festivals with the class and write them on the
knows the word kilt, which describes what the
board. Have students choose one (or think of a
man is wearing.
different one) and answer the questions from A
about that event. Point out the information in the
Tell pairs to read the text and focus on the words
Word Bank to say how often an event happens.
in blue. They need to check their understanding
Assign students to new pairs and have them talk
of the meaning. As an alternative, you could
about their events. Call on individual students to
write these definitions on the board (in random
tell the class about their partner’s event.
order) and have students match them to the
words in blue (shown in parentheses):
TEACHING ONLINE
happens (takes place)
If you are teaching online or students have access
each year (every year)
to the internet at home, your students could
old, from the past (traditional)
research a festival either in class or for homework
people marching on the street at a festival
and find out the answers to the six questions. Then,
(parades)
with their notes, they can tell their partner about it.
present to other people (perform)
TEACHING TIP: Brainstorming
try to win (compete)
Brainstorming is a method for gathering a lot of ideas
go to (attend)
on a topic. It can be done individually, in groups, or
enjoy a special day with other people (celebrate)
as a class. Introduce your students to the concept by
After they have matched, have students work
drawing a picture of a big storm cloud with flashes of
with a partner to find the answers in the text
lightning coming out of it. Tell them, In a storm, you
and practice asking and answering them. As a
see lots of flashes of lightning. In brainstorming, you
© National Geographic Learning
class, check the answers to 1–5 and then invite
have lots of ideas very fast, like flashes of lightning.
students to give their reasons for their answers
Explain that in brainstorming, you list your ideas very
in 6.
quickly. Here are some additional tips.

1. Write all the ideas you think of, without deciding
PRONUNCIATION TIP: Word stress
if they’re good or bad.
Make sure students practice saying these words
2. Don’t think about spelling.
in particular and have them underline the stressed
3. Try to write a long list.
syllable: traditional, parades, perform, compete,
attend, celebrate.
4. Read your finished list and then choose the
ideas you want to use.

111a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 72 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 221 ────────

8B BIG EVENTS

VOCABULARY

A Read about the Highland Games. Look up any words
WORD BANK
you don’t know. Then ask and answer the questions
every (day / week / month / year)
with a partner.

• People from around the world perform
The Highland Games take place in Scotland
traditional Scottish dances. They compete
every year in the spring, summer, and fall.
to be the best.
Many things happen at the festival:
Thousands of people attend the games.
• People wear traditional clothes and play
People also celebrate the games in countries
traditional sports. One popular event is the
like Brazil and New Zealand.
hammer throw.
Don’t miss the festival, and take lots of photos!
• There are bagpipe parades.

The games are in Scotland.
1. Where are the games?
They take place every year.
2. How often do they take place?
They take place in the spring, summer, and fall.
3. When do they take place?
Thousands of people attend the games.
4. How many people attend?
People wear traditional clothes, play traditional sports, and perform
5. What happens at the games?
traditional Scottish dances. There are also parades.
6. Is this event interesting to you? Why or why not?

B Think of another sporting event or sports festival. Tell a partner about it. Use the questions in A.

A man throws a hammer
in the Highland Games.
The hammer weighs
around 20 pounds (9 kg).

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 111

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 73 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 222 ────────

READING
READINGREADING
WARM-UP 5 min
Talk about events and festivals
that are popular with young
B U R N I N G M A N :
people in the students’ country
A R T I N T H E
(or countries). Ask, Who attends
them? When are they? What do
people do there?
DESERT
CULTURE TIP: Burning Man

Burning Man started in 1986
when a group of friends gathered
on a beach in San Francisco,
US, and burned a 3-meter-high
(9.84 ft.) wooden figure of a man
as a symbol of self-expression.
Then, in 1990, a different group
of people got together in the
desert in Nevada to burn large
sculptures. More people came to
Nevada every year until, in 1997,
over 10,000 people gathered for
the event. Today, the organization
People at the Burning Man
makes grants of money to
event make incredible art
sculptures in the desert.
hundreds of artists to help them
bring their art to the festival. The
climax of the festival every year is
still the burning of a large statue
of a man on the last night.

A Look at the photo and read the
caption. Who are the people
in the photo? What are they
A Look at the photo and read the caption. Who are C Read the article. What things do people do at
doing? 5–10 min
the people in the photo? What are they doing?    Burning Man? Check (✓) the correct answers.
Have students study the photo
✓
build something    leave their garbage
and read the caption. Give
B Read the first paragraph. Answer the    buy their favorite art
behind
questions.
them a few minutes to prepare
✓    ✓
cook    make art
1. What is Black Rock City?
their answers because there
Black Rock City is a city in the desert.    ✓    ✓
dance    watch performances
2. Why do people go there?
are a few people in the photo
People go there to live more simply.
drive cars
and they are doing different
things. You may need to prompt
112 | UNIT 8
students with vocabulary. Elicit
the answers as a class and
ask, What do you think it is a
sculpture of? What is it made
to the questions. Set a time
D Explain. Why are these things
from? It could be an animal
limit so that students read for
mentioned in the article? Use
like a wild boar and it looks like
specific answers only.
each one in a sentence.
it’s made from metal, perhaps
10–15 min
© National Geographic Learning
steel. Students could reuse the
Students might need more
C Read the article. What things
expressions they learned in
guidance than usual with this
do people do at Burning Man?
Lesson A to say if they know,
task, so work through the first
Check (✓) the correct answers.
don’t know, or aren’t certain.
one together. Highlight that
5–10 min
the word bicycle appears in
Most of the answers to C are
the fifth sentence in paragraph
B Read the first paragraph.
in the first half of the article, so
one. Then have students
Answer the questions. 5 min
set a time limit for this task as
underline any important words
Give students one to two
well. Have students compare
in the paragraph which are
minutes to read the first
their answers before checking
related to the word bicycle.
paragraph and find answers
together as a class.

112 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 74 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 223 ────────

Encourage students to help
each other and compare their
final sentences.
Every year in late August, more than 75,000
people travel to the desert1 for the Burning2 Man
Explain. It’s important that
event. This event takes place over nine days. At
students can explain the
the event, people make a “city” there and call it
reasons for their answers or
Black Rock City. There are streets but no cars in
explain the importance or
Black Rock City. People walk
around or ride bicycles, but
relevance of something in
they don’t go fast. The speed
a text. Encourage them to
limit is only 5 mph (8 kph). Most
scan for a key word (such
of the people stay in tents. People live simply.
as bicycle) and then read
They cook together, dance, perform, and make
around that word for the rest
art. The performances are free, and it doesn’t
of the information; note that
cost anything to look at the art.
sometimes the key information
It is very hot during the day—sometimes over
comes before the key word as
100º F (38º C). Most of the performances
well as after it.
take place at night. Burning Man Information
Radio is on 24 hours a day. It gives general
EXTRA! Listen to the text
information about performances, art locations,
69 5 mins
and other news.

During the week, people build a large wooden
If you have time, don’t forget that
man in the city. At the end of the week, they burn
students can listen to and read
the man. Then everyone cleans up their area.
the text. This is a good way for
There is one rule: everything you bring to the
them to check if they know the
desert, you have to take home with you.
pronunciation of every word as
Everyone leaves the desert. There is no more
well as to listen to the text being
Black Rock City, until next August. 69
read at normal speed. It’s also a
1A desert area has little water and not many plants.
way to consolidate the lesson.
2A burning object is on fire.

TEACHING TIP: Listen or read
without pressure

As teachers, we often feel that
we should assign comprehension
questions when we ask students
to listen to or read a text. But
Most of the people in Black Rock City
D Explain. Why are these things mentioned in    4. tents
sometimes, in class, it’s fine to set
stay in tents.
the article? Use each one in a sentence.
aside five minutes where students
People build a large wooden man
1. bicyclesPeople use bicycles, not cars, in Black    5. a wooden man
listen to or read a text simply
and burn it.
Rock City.
for pleasure or without external
75,000 people come to the desert
2. the desert
E Do you want to go to the Burning Man event?
and make a city there.
pressure.
Why or why not?
A radio station gives general
3. a radio station
information about the event and other news.

E Do you want to go to the
Lesson B | 113
Burning Man event? Why or
why not? 10 min
Give students a few minutes to
think about their answers to the
NOTES
questions. Then assign them to
new partners to discuss. Call
on individual students to share
© National Geographic Learning
their answers with the class.

EXTRA! Discussion
questions 5 min
1. Why do people like to go to
festivals?

2. Do you like to be in a big
crowd of people? Why or
why not?

Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson B | 113

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 75 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 224 ────────

Balloons come in many
shapes and colors.

LISTENING

A Look at the photo and the caption. Answer the questions.
1. What do you see in the photo?
2. What do you think is happening?

B Read the sentences. Then listen and learn about the International Balloon Fiesta.
i Fiesta is the
Circle True or False. Then rewrite the false sentences to make them true. 70
Spanish word for
“party.”
1. The Balloon Fiesta is in the summer. True False
The Balloon Fiesta is in the fall.

2. The balloons come only from the US. True False
The balloons come from around the world.

3. The balloon race is in the afternoon. True False
The balloon race is in the evening.

4. Some visitors join teams. True False

C Listen for numbers. Listen again. Match the numbers to
the things they describe. 70
© National Geographic Learning
Pronunciation
9 balloons in interesting shapes
550 = five hundred (and) fifty
100 days

550 different countries

22 teams from around the world

8 traditional balloons

D Imagine you are at the Balloon Fiesta. Do you want to help with the balloons or
just watch? Tell a partner.

114 | UNIT 8

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 76 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 225 ────────

TEACHING TIP: Listening to answers again
LISTENING
Students often find it helpful if you play the audio
WARM-UP 5 min
again after checking answers, pausing to point
out the sections where the answers were found.
Ask, Which months are fall in this country? Talk
Students who missed the answers may notice them
about students’ favorite fall activities. Talk about
more easily this way.
whether they like the fall or not, and ask them
to explain their reasons. Do they know any
fall festivals? (Note: Your students might have
C Listen for numbers. Listen again. Match the
previously learned the word autumn, which is the
numbers to the things they describe. 70 10 min
more commonly used word for fall in British English,
so check their understanding.) Explain that in this
Before listening, ask individual students to read
lesson they are going to hear about a festival that
the numbers listed aloud as a review and so that
takes place in the fall.
everyone understands what they need to listen
for. Refer them to the pronunciation box for the
number 550. Students could also try to predict
A Look at the photo and the caption. Answer the
the answers before listening, as they have
questions. 5 min
listened at least once already and can guess
from context. Play the audio and then check the
Have students look at the photo and read the
answers together as a class.
caption. You could teach them the full name
for the balloons—hot air balloons. Elicit from
Listen for numbers. At this stage, students
students that they are looking at a special type
should be familiar with numbers and should be
of festival. Also, check that they understand
getting used to listening out for them. Encourage
the word shape and elicit that the shapes of
them to focus on the numbers and the
the balloons in the photo include normal round
surrounding information connected with them.
balloons, but also balloons that are animalshaped and one that is diamond-shaped.
D Imagine you are at the Balloon Fiesta. Do you
want to help with the balloons or just watch? Tell
TEACHING TIP: Using visual information
a partner. 5 min
Before any listening, showing something visual
Have students discuss whether they would like
that goes with the audio will always help students.
to help or watch. They should also give their
Ask questions about the photo, such as What can
reasons. You could also ask them if they would
you see? Where is it? What’s happening? What do
like to ride in one of the balloons and if they have
you think they are doing? Students will begin to
ever been in one.
understand that while they may know very little about
a topic, they can still gather information about it from
EXTRA! Create an advertisement 20 min
an image. This will help them in listening exercises.
Put students in pairs and tell them to write a short
advertisement for the Balloon Fiesta. They can use
CULTURE AND LANGUAGE TIP
the photo at the top of the page and then write the
name of the festival from the listening, the location,
The listening includes a few cultural references and
the time of year, and what people can do there.
language that may cause difficulty. Albuquerque
Here’s an example that you could share at the end:
is the largest city in the US state of New Mexico.
The word fiesta means the same as festival in
The Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta!
this context (very large celebration or party). The
Come to the largest balloon festival in the world!
audio also refers to Elvis (Presley), and Darth
Vader from the film Star Wars. Although these are
Nine days of balloons from 22 different countries
internationally-known cultural icons, don’t assume
around the world.
all your students know who they are (especially
© National Geographic LearningDon’t miss the exciting race between 8 teams.
younger students and Elvis).

B Read the sentences. Then listen and learn about
the International Balloon Fiesta. Circle True or
False. Then rewrite the false sentences to make
them true. 70 10 min
Give students time to read through the
sentences. Then play the audio, more than once
if necessary, and have students circle their
answers. Afterwards, have students rewrite the
false sentences (1–3), in pairs if they’d like.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson B | 114a

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 77 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 226 ────────

Here, speaker A answers with from . . . to because
GRAMMAR
speaker B asked for specific dates. Depending on
the context, the when questions in the chart could
WARM-UP 5 min
also receive from . . . to, and until answers—for
Start this lesson with a review of prepositions. To
instance, When is the festival? It’s from October 5
do this, refer students back to the previous page
to October 13. / It’s until October 13. How long asks
and the audio about the Balloon Fiesta. Ask these
only about a length of time, as in this example:
questions:
A: When is the movie?
When is the fiesta?
B: At 1:00.
Which season is it in?
A: How long is it?
How long does it last for?
B: Two hours.
Elicit the answers and write them on the board.
Underline the prepositions as shown: In October, In
the fall, For 9 days. Then ask students what other
B Complete the conversation with When, How long,
prepositions they remember from the grammar in
or a preposition. Then practice in pairs. 10–15 min
Lesson A, and when they use them. For example,
Have students look at the photo and describe
on a day / date, at a time, in a country, with
what they can see. Ask, What kind of festival
someone.
is Comic-Con International? What do people
do there? Then have students complete the
conversation individually before comparing with
A Read the Unit 8, Lesson B Grammar Reference
a partner. If necessary, do the first few sentences
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
together with the class. After checking answers,
the exercises below. 3 min
assign students to pairs for oral practice. Remind
If you assigned the Grammar Reference as
them to look at their partner while speaking.
homework, go over students’ work in class now.
Next, introduce the chart to the class. First, read
through the questions with be and highlight the use
C Work with a partner. Make a new conversation
of the prepositions in the answers. You could draw
about your vacation. Use the conversation in B as
a timeline to clarify certain points in the chart.
a model. 10–15 min
Assign students to pairs and have them create a
TEACHING TIP: Timelines
new conversation using the one in B as a model.
Help with vocabulary as needed. If necessary,
Timelines are very useful to help students
students could write out their conversation first
understand the difference between when and how
and then read it aloud.
long, and to understand the different verb forms.
Explain the idea of a length of time (draw a line on
the board) and a specific time (mark points on the
D Say your conversation for another pair. When you
line). Ask students to give you more examples of
listen to the other pair, answer the questions.
each kind of question and answer. For example,
10 min
draw the timeline below and ask these questions:
Have students read the directions and the four
When is our class? It starts at 10:30. Length of time:
questions. Tell them they need to take notes to
How long is our class? Two hours. It’s from 10:30 to
answer the questions as they listen to another
12:30.
pair’s conversation. Have pairs join to make
10:30 12:30
groups of four and have each pair present their
x    x
conversation. Call on a few pairs to tell the class
2 hours
what the other pair’s conversation was about.

GRAMMAR TIP: How long
© National Geographic Learning
A question with when is typically a request for
specific time information:

A: The Balloon Fiesta is in October.

B: Really? When?

A: (It’s) from October 5 to October 13.

115a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 78 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 227 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 8, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

QUESTIONS WITH WHEN AND HOW LONG
When is the balloon fiesta?
How long is the balloon fiesta?
It’s from October 5 to October 13.*    Use from . . . to to answer questions (about dates and
When is summer break?    seasons) with when and how long.
How long is summer break?
It’s from July to September.
When is the balloon fiesta?
In is used to show a point in time.
It’s in October. / It’s in the fall.
Use in before months, seasons, times of day, and years.
It’s in the early evening. / It’s in 2021.
How long is the balloon fiesta?
It lasts for nine days.    For is used to show a period of time.
Nine days.
Remember: When you read it aloud, say “October fifth to October thirteenth.”

i Using on
B Complete the conversation with When, How long, or a preposition. Then practice in pairs.
When    Use on with
When
A: Cool! do you leave?
A: does your vacation start?
dates and days
On    of the week.
On
B: Friday.
B: July 21. My flight
on Monday /
in
is the afternoon.
How long    on March 7
A: is your break?
A: are you away?
for from    How long
B: It lasts two weeks,
to    for
July 16 July 30.
B: I’m there a week. I return
on
home July 28.
A: Do you have any plans?
how long
A: Sounds good. So, is the flight
B: Yeah. I’m going to California. I’m attending
from Lima to San Diego?
Comic-Con. It takes place every year
in
B: Nine hours!
July.

C Work with a partner. Make a new conversation about your vacation. Use the conversation
in B as a model.

D Say your conversation for another pair. When you listen to the other pair, answer the questions.
1. How long is the speaker’s break? 3. When does he or she leave?
2. Where is he or she going? 4. How long is he or she staying at the event?

© National Geographic Learning
Every year, more than 130,000
comic book fans attend
Comic-Con International in
San Diego, California. At the
event, they learn about new
comic books, sci-fi movies
and TV shows.

Lesson B | 115

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 79 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 228 ────────

The Fringe Festival takes place every
summer in Edinburgh, Scotland.

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Read about the Edinburgh Fringe Festival. Then, with a partner, write down some questions about it.
WHAT: The Fringe Festival    The Fringe Festival is the largest arts celebration in the world.
WHERE: Edinburgh, Scotland    People watch dance, music, and comedy performances—and
WHEN: Three weeks in August more! Some of the performers are famous, but many are not.
NEXT ONE: August 6–30    The shows are for both children and adults. It’s a lot of fun!

Student A: Use the words to write three questions about the Fringe Festival.
Where does it take place?
1. where / take place
How long is it?
2. how long
What kind of performances do people watch?
3. what kind / performances
Student B: Use the words to write three questions about the Fringe Festival.
What month is it in?
1. what month
What kind of festival is it?
2. what kind / festival
Who are the shows for?
3. who / shows for

B Take turns asking and answering the questions in A with your partner.

C Think of a festival. Choose two words from the box to describe it. Ask your partner about his or her
festival. Can you guess it?

Examples: a traditional arts festival, a summer film festival, a
Different types of festivals
new music festival
arts, cultural, film, music,
A: What kind of festival is it?    summer*, new, traditional

B: It’s a traditional arts festival.    *or any other season
© National Geographic Learning
A: When does it take place?

D WRITING Write about your festival. Use the text in A as a model.

8B GOALS Now I can . . .
1. Yes, I can.
State when and how long an event is
2. Mostly, yes.
Describe what happens at a festival
3. Not yet.

116 | UNIT 8

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 80 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 229 ────────

know about any large festivals, they could
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
choose a local event from their own hometown
where people get together and, perhaps, play
WARM-UP 5–10 min
music and dance, perform in some way, or
Remind students that at the beginning of Lesson B
celebrate something with food. When making
they learned about a big event called The Highland
notes, they should look at the questions they
Games. Ask them, Where do the games take place?
prepared in A and write down the answers.
and elicit the answer Scotland. Write the answer in
Then, when they are ready, have students work
the middle of the board and ask, What else do you
in pairs and ask each other about their festivals.
know about Scotland? Write any words that students
End the exercise with students reporting back to
can think of connected to Scotland on the board.
the whole class about some of the festivals they
Then tell them they are going to read about another
described.
festival in Scotland.

D WRITING Write about your festival. Use the text in
CULTURE TIP: Edinburgh Fringe Festival
A as a model. 30–40 min
The Edinburgh Fringe Festival is also referred to
Ask students to read the five-sentence
locally as The Fringe or The Edinburgh Fringe.
paragraph in A about the Fringe Festival. Have
Sometimes people confuse it with the Edinburgh
them underline any useful words or expressions
International Festival, but the two festivals are not
that they think they could use in their own writing.
exactly the same. The first Edinburgh International
Ask a few students to say what they underlined
Festival took place in 1947 and professional
and write their ideas on the board. For example:
performers came from all over the world to perform.
Over the years, other performers (including unpaid
The Festival is the . . .
amateurs and students) started to attend the main
People watch . . . —and more!
festival but also put on their own performances.
Some of the performers are . . .
This was called The Fringe. So the two festivals take
place at the same time in August and, as a result,
The shows are for . . .
it’s become the largest arts festival in the world.
It’s a lot of fun!

Suggest that students try to use some of the
A Read about the Edinburgh Fringe Festival.
phrases in their own writing and structure the
Then, with a partner, write down some questions
paragraph in a similar way.
about it. 10–15 min
Diagnostics
Tell the class to look at the photo and read the
Check students’ competencies as follows:
caption. Ask them to describe what type of
festival they think a Fringe Festival might be.
• Are students able to ask and answer questions
For example, Does it have dancing and music?
with when and how long?
Next, have students read the information in the
• Can they describe a festival they know about?
box. Help with any unknown vocabulary. Assign
• Are they able to write a short descriptive
A-B pairs and make sure Students A and B both
paragraph about a festival?
complete their respective sets of questions. Then
check the questions with the whole class for
accuracy before moving on to B.
8B
GOALS
Review students’ self-assessment in the
B Take turns asking and answering the questions in
goals box. Point out to students where
A with your partner. 10 min
they learned these skills in the unit. If they
Working together, have students take turns
rated their ability below Yes, I can, they can
asking and answering their questions about the
turn back to those pages and review the
Edinburgh Fringe festival. Monitor their answers
exercises.
and check that everyone is using prepositions
© National Geographic Learning
State when and how long an event is:
correctly. Give any necessary feedback and
Listening, page 114, B–C; Grammar,
correction afterwards.
page 115, A–D; Active English, page 116,
B–D
C Think of a festival. Choose two words from the
Describe what happens at a festival:
box to describe it. Ask your partner about his or
Vocabulary, page 111, A and B;
her festival. Can you guess it? 15–20 min
Reading, pages 112–113, C–D;
Students will need some time to think of a
Active English, page 116, B–D
festival. In some cases, if your students don’t

Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson B | 116a

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 81 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 230 ────────

D Now watch Lara talk about another holiday.
GLOBAL VOICES
Complete the sentences on the right. 10 min
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Repeat the same process from C, but this time
play the section of the video with Lara describing
Write New Year on the board and ask students,
Semana Santa. You might need to explain
What do you normally do at New Year? Write
what Easter is for some students and when
their ideas on the board. Note that New Year is
it happens, and also the word gather, which
celebrated at different times for some nationalities,
means get together or meet in one place (with
so if you have students from different countries,
other people).
allow plenty of time to get different descriptions. If
your students are all from the same country, see if
they all agree on what they normally do at New Year.
EXTRA! Role-play 10 min
Put students into pairs and assign the role of JY
ABOUT THE VIDEO
to Student A and Lara to Student B. Using the
In this Global Voices video, Alex Sigrist interviews
information from the video and the sentences in
two people about holidays in their country: JY is a
C, tell students to take turns describing the two
teacher from South Korea and she describes the
holidays as if they are JY and Lara. They should try
celebrations around New Year. Lara is a model from
to remember as much as possible without referring
Spain who is living in Korea. She describes the
back to the book.
Spanish holiday of Semana Santa, which is around
Easter time in either March or April. JY refers to
E Think of a holiday you know. Answer the
the lunar calendar, which is an old calendar based
questions in the chart. Then tell your partner
on the moon. Lara mentions the Roman calendar,
about it. 10 min
which comes from the ancient Romans and was
also based on the moon, originally.
So far in this unit, students have talked about
and described festivals that they are familiar
with. In this exercise, they need to focus on
A Study the words in the Word Bank. Then read the
talking about holidays in their country—such as
information below. 5–10 min
New Year, Christmas, Eid, Hanukkah, Diwali—
Give students time to read the words and check
where they typically gather with their family
their understanding of the description of a lunar
and close friends to share a meal or celebrate
calendar. If any of your students know about it,
something. Give time for students to fill in the
give them time to explain. Otherwise, give the
table and answer the questions. Monitor and
information above about the video and explain
help students who need ideas and vocabulary.
the lunar and Roman calendars.
(If necessary, assign the task for homework so
that students can research the holiday.) Then,
assign pairs, and have students take turns
B Watch the first part of the video. Circle the correct
describing the holiday. Afterwards, invite some
answers. 10 min
students to tell the whole class.
Give students time to read the sentences
and even to try to predict the answers before
TEACHING ONLINE
watching. Play the first part of the video twice;
the second time, pause the video when the
If you are teaching online, students could record
answer comes up for each sentence to check
their conversations in a similar way to the video,
that everyone understands.
with one student interviewing and the other talking.
Then they could share their videos to watch.

C Watch JY talk about a holiday. Complete the
sentences on the left. 10 min
Make sure students are only reading the four
sentences on the left for JY and then play the
© National Geographic Learning
video to the end of her description. Again, you
might need to play the video twice in order to
check the answers.

117a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 82 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 231 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A Study the words in the Word Bank. Then read the information below.
WORD BANK
In this video, two people (JY and Lara) are talking about holidays. JY talks
calendar
about a lunar calendar. A lunar calendar uses the moon to measure time. It is
measure
a very old calendar. Do you know about it?

B Watch the first part of the video. Circle the correct answers.
1. JY is from Korea / Japan. Lara is from Italy / Spain.
2. JY is talking about a new / traditional holiday. The date for this holiday changes / doesn’t
change every year.

C Watch JY talk about a holiday. Complete the sentences on the left.
JY
Lara
new
1. She is talking about a year’s
1. She is talking about semana santa, holy
week
celebration.
.
25    March
2. This year it’s on January . Next
2. You celebrate it around Easter (in
12    April
year it’s on February .
or ).
grandmother’s /    grandmother’s /
3. The family gathers at house.
3. The family gathers at house.
grandma’s    grandma’s
soup    toast
4. Everyone eats rice cake .
4. Everyone eats a kind of French .
parades
5. There are and costumes.

D Now watch Lara talk about another holiday. Complete the sentences on the right.

E Think of a holiday you know. Answer the questions in the chart. Then tell your partner about it.
What is the name of the holiday?
When is it?
Where do people gather for the holiday?
What do they eat?

Colorful lights at a Korean
new year’s celebration

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 117

WLTB_INT_U08_ptg01.indd 83 25/05/21 3:38 PM

──────── Page 232 ────────

UNIT 9

ABOUT THE PHOTO    9
The two women in the photo
are at the Starry Art Museum
in Shanghai, China. Digital
installations in the exhibition hall
TOGETHER
use mirrors and lights to create
different visual effects. People
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
QUESTIONS.
often visit the museum with
friends to see the latest exhibits
1. What are the women doing?
and take photos.
2. How do you think they know each other?

WARM-UP VIDEO
INTRODUCE THE THEME
In Unit 6, students talked about
A In the places below, when do people usually
move out* of their parents’ homes? Guess
family and other personal
with a partner.
relationships. In this unit, students
Place Age
explore the connection they have
the United States 19 23 26 or older
with friends and roommates—that
many Latin American 19 23 26 or older
is, the people that they socialize
countries
and sometimes live with. In
some European countries 19 23 26 or older
Lesson A, students consider
*When you move out, you leave a house and go to live in
the pros and cons of having a
another place.
roommate, what to do when things
B Watch the video. Circle the correct ages in A.
go wrong with one, and how
compatible they and a classmate
C Watch the video again. Circle T for true or F
might be as roommates. In Lesson
for false. Correct the false sentences.
B, students talk about the different
1. In the US, college students usually T F
kinds of friends they have, why
In the US, college students
live alone.
usually live with roommates.
they are friends with these people,
2. After college, many students in the T F
and the things they and their
US move back in with their parents.

3. In Latin America, many college T F
friends enjoy doing together.
students live with their parents.

4. In Europe, most college students T F
In Europe, most
WARM-UP 5 min
live with roommates.
college students live with their parents.
5. Many big cities are expensive, so T F
Look at the title of the unit and
some people need roommates.
make sure students understand
the meaning of together. Then
D Talk about your country. When do people
write on the board, What people
leave their parents’ homes? Do they live with
someone else?
are important to you? Write
headers for two columns: Family
and Other. Elicit students’
answers and write them in the
correct columns. Ask, Do you
spend a lot of time together with
these people? Have students
Write on the board, When
WARM-UP VIDEO
answer the questions with a
do people move out of their
About the video
partner. Take ideas from the class.
parents’ home? When they
The video explores the questions
move out, who do they live
When do people move out of their
Look at the photo. Answer the
with? Go over the meaning of
parents’ home? and When they
© National Geographic Learning
questions. 5 min
move out, which is defined on
move out, who do they live with? It
the page. Tell students to think
Put students in pairs and give them
looks at what typical experiences
about their own country and
a couple of minutes to answer the
are for people from the US, Latin
to write their ideas about the
questions. Then take ideas from
America, and Europe.
questions in their notebooks.
the class. Possible answers to
question 1 include: They’re visiting
Ask students to work in pairs
a museum. They’re taking photos.
A In the places below, when do
and guess when people in the
They’re texting a friend. Possible
people usually move out of
places on the page move out
answers to question 2 include:
their parents’ homes? Guess
of the family home. Take ideas
They’re friends / classmates /
with a partner. 10 min
from the class.
roommates (they live together).

118 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 9

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 118 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 233 ────────

LANGUAGE TIP: Latin America

The term Latin America typically
Visitors in the
refers to countries in the Americas
Starry Art Museum
where Spanish or Portuguese
in Shanghai, China
is the main language spoken.
Examples include Argentina,
Brazil, Costa Rica, and Mexico.

B Watch the video. Circle the
correct ages in A. 10–15 min
Have students watch the
video the first time with the
sound off. As you watch, have
students narrate for you what’s
happening on screen (e.g.,
a student is moving out; he’s
going to college; he’s meeting
his roommate). As you watch,
also ask, What countries are
in the video? (Answer: the US,
Mexico, Italy) Going through
the video once with the sound
off will prepare students to
understand more of what they
will hear when you play it with
the audio.

Play the video with the sound
on. Tell students to watch and
listen for the ages when people
move out. Remind students that
they’ve already seen some of
the answers on screen when
they were watching without
the audio.

CULTURE TIP: roommate
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
In countries like the US and
/ Explain how often you do things    / Talk about friendship
China, many college students live
/ Make and respond to apologies    / Ask questions about friends
in dormitories and often share a
room with one or more people.
These roommates are sometimes
guess any of the answers from
they think of the customs
assigned at random, which can
the first viewing. Then play the
they saw in the video (e.g.,
lead to problems if the people
video again and have students
moving out at 19, living with a
have different personalities or
choose their answers. Check
roommate). Take ideas from
habits. Young adults in the US and
answers with the class, playing
the class.
other countries may sometimes
© National Geographic Learning
the video again as needed.
choose to share an apartment
EXTRA VIDEO
or house with roommates, too,
VOCABULARY
because the cost of living in a city
D Talk about your country. When
is expensive.
become good friends
do people leave their parents’
homes? Do they live with
leave (home)
someone else? 5 min
C Watch the video again. Circle
move back (home)
Tell students to answer the
T for true or F for false. Correct
questions (They made some
the false sentences. 10 min
notes in the Warm-Up.). As a
Tell students to read items 1–5.
follow-up, ask students what
Ask if they can remember or

Teacher’s Book UNIT 9 | 119

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 119 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 234 ────────

9A ROOMMATES

VOCABULARY
WORD BANK
chores
A Say the chores in the Word Bank with your teacher.
clean (a room)
Talk about their meanings. Then tell a partner what
do the dishes
chores you do at home.
do the laundry
make breakfast / dinner
After dinner, I do the dishes.
make your bed
take out the garbage
B Read the tips below.
1. Tell a partner what it is about.
Many expressions in
2. Then do the following:
English use do and make.
How many are in the tips?
• Complete ➊–➌ with verbs from the Word Bank.
Circle them. Do you know
• Complete ➍ with do or make. Check your answers at
any others?
the bottom of the page.

Life with Roommates
Tips for Living Together

➊ Make a list of chores. Decide when to . . .
do
• the dishes.
• clean    common areas* (like the bathroom).
take out
• the garbage.

make
➋ Keep your own room tidy: your bed and
do
your laundry.

Make
➌ dinner and eat together sometimes.

make
➍ Don’t noise when people are trying
do
to homework or sleep.

© National Geographic Learning
*In a house, a common area is a room everyone uses.

C Take turns reading ➊–➍ aloud with a partner.
1. Do you think these are good ideas? Why or why not?
2. Add one more idea to the list. Then tell the class.

4. make noise, do homework

120 | UNIT 9

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 120 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 235 ────────

or make are in the tips, and have them circle the
9A ROOMMATES
examples they can find. Check answers with the
class. (There are three for do and four for make.)
VOCABULARY
TEACHING TIP: Learning collocations
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Look at the title of this lesson and remind students
Collocations are word combinations that frequently
that they learned about roommates in the Warm-Up
occur together. Students have already learned
video. Put students in pairs and ask them to think of
many in World Link. In this lesson, a number of
a TV show (domestic or foreign) about people who
high-frequency collocations with do and make are
live with roommates. It can be a sitcom, a drama,
introduced. Learning “chunks” of language like
or a reality TV show. Have pairs answer these
this facilitates recall and helps build fluency. As
questions: On the show, how many roommates live
students learn collocations, encourage them to
together? Are the people friends? Do they ever
focus on the meaning of the whole phrase rather
fight? If yes, why? Take ideas from the class.
than the individual parts, and to record them this
way in their notebooks.

A Say the chores in the Word Bank with your
MORE WORDS: Other collocations
teacher. Talk about their meanings. Then tell a
with do and make + noun
partner what chores you do at home. 10 min
Say the word chore with the class and write the
do the chores    make a mistake
meaning on the board: Chores are things we do at
do your best    make a suggestion
home every day or every week. Then tell students
to look at the phrases in the Word Bank. Say each
C Take turns reading ➊–➍ aloud with a partner.
phrase aloud with the class. As you do, act it
10 min
out. Students may need to look up some words
Have students work in pairs and take turns
(laundry, garbage) in their dictionaries. Then have
reading the tips aloud. Circulate, checking
students tell a partner which chores they do at
pronunciation. Then have them answer the
home. Direct them to the example. Take ideas from
questions and add one more idea to the list.
the class. What are the most common answers?
Take ideas from the class and write them on the
board. Vote on the best ones.
EXPANSION 5 min
For more practice with the vocabulary in the Word
EXTRA! Tic-Tac-Toe: make or do 10 min
Bank, write on the board, What am I doing? Then
Review the collocations with do and make that
act out one of the phrases. Tell students to call out
students learned and introduce three or four others.
the answer—e.g., You’re doing the dishes. Do this
Then project or write this diagram on the board; tell
a couple of times. Then have students close their
student pairs to copy it onto a piece of paper.
books and see if they can recall the phrases as you
act them out.
the dishes the bed your
homework
MORE WORDS: Other chores
noise a list breakfast
mop the floor
the chores the laundry a mistake
sweep the floor
vacuum
Then have students play a game of Tic-Tac-Toe by
doing the following:
B Read the tips below. 10 min
• Student A is X. Student B is O.
Have students look quickly at the tips. Ask them
• Student A goes first, chooses a square, and says
to tell a partner what the tips are about. Then
© National Geographic Learning
the phrase aloud, using either make or do. If the
take ideas from the class. (Note: The word tip
answer is correct, A puts an X on the square. If it
means “advice.”) Then tell students to read the
is incorrect, A leaves it blank.
directions in item 2 and complete the tips with
• Then it is Student B’s turn.
the correct words, as in the example shown.
Give students a few minutes to do this. Then
• The first person with three Xs or Os in a row in
check answers with the class by asking various
the chart wins.
students to each read a tip aloud. Go over any
• Play again. This time, give make or do only in the
unfamiliar vocabulary.
cells and have students add a phrase (e.g., the
Finally, draw students’ attention to the question
laundry) as they play.
in the box about how many expressions with do

Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson A | 120a

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 120 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 236 ────────

Predict. If students are listening to a formal talk
LISTENING
or lecture, very often an outline or slides are
provided. Usually, these include the main ideas
WARM-UP 5 min
and important details from the talk. Reading the
Review the meaning of the word expensive.
notes before listening can help students make
Ask students to tell you about an expensive
some predictions about what they will hear,
neighborhood or area in their city. Then tell them to
which will help them understand more during
look at the photo and read the caption. Ask them
the talk.
what city is in the photo, and what things can they
see in the picture (Paris; apartment buildings, the
Eiffel Tower). Ask them if they think living in this area
C Listen for the good things. Complete items 1, 2,
of Paris would be cheap or expensive and why.
and 3 in B. Write a word or phrase. 71 10 min
Tell students they are going to listen for the good
A Activate knowledge. Look at the photo and read
things about living with a roommate. In B, they
the caption. In your opinion, is it good to live with
made some predictions. Play the audio once and
roommates? Why or why not? Tell a partner.
have students check their ideas. Then play the
5–10 min
audio again. This time, tell students to write one
or two words in each blank. At the end, tell them
Have students discuss the questions in pairs.
to check answers with a partner. Go over the
Tell them to think about their own experience—
answers together as a class. Call on individual
maybe some have roommates or know people
students to explain. You can ask, What’s one
who do. They may have seen things on TV or in
good thing about living with a roommate? What’s
other media, and, of course, they learned about
another? What’s the third?
living with roommates in the Warm-Up video.
Then take a quick class poll: How many people
think it’s a good idea to live with a roommate
D Listen for the problems. Complete items 4 and 5.
(and why)? How many don’t? Write the results
72 10 min
and reasons on the board.
Tell students they are now going to listen for the
bad things about living with a roommate. Play
Activate knowledge. When teachers activate
the audio once and instruct them to check their
prior knowledge, they get learners to think about
predictions. Then play the audio again. This
what they already know or believe about a given
time, tell students to write one word in each
topic. When students do this, it helps them
blank. At the end, tell them to check answers
connect better with new information. Doing this
with a partner. Go over the answers together as
prepares them to understand more when they
a class. Call on individual students to explain.
listen (or read).

E Answer the questions with a partner. 10 min
B Predict. Read the outline. Try to guess the
answers with a partner. 10 min
Have students discuss the questions with a
partner. For question 1, ask students to think
Tell students to look at the outline. Make sure
about their answer in A. Is it still the same or did
that they understand what an outline is (a written
something in the talk change their mind? Take
summary that shows main ideas and important
ideas from the class in reply to question 2. Save
details from a talk). Ask them what the one on
some of these ideas; students may be able to
the page is showing (the good and bad things
use them later when they do the last exercise on
about living with a roommate).
the Grammar page.
Then ask students if they can predict any of the
answers in the outline. Do the first one with the
class. Say (as if thinking aloud), What’s one good
thing about living with a roommate? Well, I can
save . . . what? (Make sure students understand
the word save.) Look at the supporting details
© National Geographic Learning
in a and b. Make sure students understand pay
rent (defined in the Word Bank). Then say, I pay
part of the rent, and my roommate pays part of
the rent. We can go shopping together. Maybe I
can save . . . See if students can come up with
money to complete your sentence.

Have students see if they can predict any of the
other answers in the outline with a partner.

121a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 121 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 237 ────────

LISTENING

A Activate knowledge. Look at the photo and read the caption. In your
WORD BANK
opinion, is it good to live with roommates? Why or why not? Tell a partner.
loud = making a lot of noise
pay the rent = give money
B Predict. Read the outline. Try to guess the answers with a partner.
to live in a house

LIVING WITH A ROOMMATE

The good things
money
1. You save .
a. You each pay part of the rent.

b. You can go shopping together, too.
chores
2. You share the .
the dishes takes out
a. You do and your roommate the garbage.
fun
3. It’s to have a roommate.
alone
a. You aren’t . A roommate is like a friend.

The problems

4. You and your roommate are different.
clean
a. You often, but your roommate doesn’t.
noise
5. Sometimes is a problem.
music
a. Your roommate listens to loud when you are studying or sleeping.

C Listen for the good things. Complete items 1, 2, and 3 in B. Write a word or phrase. 71

D Listen for the problems. Complete items 4 and 5. 72

E Answer the questions with a partner.
1. Think about your answer in A. Is it still the same?
2. Look at the problems in B. When these bad things    In expensive cities (like Paris),
students and other young people
happen, what can roommates do?
sometimes live with roommates.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson A | 121

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 121 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 238 ────────

Are they good
SPEAKING
roommates?

A The men in the photo are roommates. What are
they doing? Tell a partner.
One is playing video games (loudly); the other is eating.

B Read and listen to the conversation between
another group of roommates. Then answer
the questions. 73

Emilio: Hey, guys.

Adam: Hey, Emilio. What’s up? Do you want to
join us?

Emilio: Thanks, but not tonight. Actually, I’m trying
to sleep and the game is a little loud.

Adam: Oh, sorry about that!

Emilio: No problem. I don’t usually go to bed this
early, but I have a big test in the morning.

Adam: We’ll be quiet.

Emilio: Great. Thanks.

Adam: Sure. Good luck with the test tomorrow.

1. Adam apologizes (says he is sorry) to Emilio.
Adam apologizes
Why? Underline his apology.
because he’s making noise. He says, Sorry about that!
2. How does Emilio respond to the apology?
Emilio says, No problem.

C Practice the conversation with a partner.

D Choose a situation and role-play it. Use the conversation in B and
SPEAKING STRATEGY 74
the expressions in the Speaking Strategy to help you.
Apologizing
Situation 1
Making an apology
Student A: You want to do your laundry, but your roommate’s
(I’m) sorry.
clothes are in the washing machine.
(I’m) sorry about that.
I’m really sorry. [stronger]
Student B: You forgot about your clothes. You’ll get them now.
Responding to an apology
No problem.
Situation 2
That’s OK / all right.
Don’t worry about it.
Student A: Your parents plan to visit this afternoon. A lot of your
roommate’s dishes are in the sink, and the house is very messy.

Student B: It’s your turn to clean today. You’ll do it now.
© National Geographic Learning
E Perform your role play for another pair. Don’t read your conversation.

F Repeat D and E. Switch roles and do the other situation.

122 | UNIT 9

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 122 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 239 ────────

SPEAKING
MORE WORDS: Other language in the script
• Guys is an informal word used to address two
WARM-UP 5 min
or more people.
Act out an everyday situation for the class in which
• What’s up? is a greeting that means How are
you would apologize—for example, maybe you
you (doing)?
accidentally knock a person’s book off his desk.
After you’ve done this, say, Sorry. Write the word on
• Good luck is an expression people use to wish
the board and say it with the class. Next to it, write,
others success.
No problem. Repeat the action and then say, Sorry
again. This time, tell the student whose book you
LANGUAGE TIP: Actually . . .
knocked over to say, No problem.
In English, people may use actually to introduce
and politely soften an uncomfortable statement. For
A The men in the photo are roommates. What are
example, Is the soup good? Actually, it’s a little salty.
they doing? Tell a partner. 5 min
In the conversation, Emilio uses actually to tell Adam
he is being loud: Actually . . . the game is a little loud.
Have students look at the photo. Tell them
the two people are roommates. Ask, What are
they doing? (playing video games and eating
C Practice the conversation with a partner. 10 min
food) Are they being loud or quiet? (Probably
Have students practice the conversation in
loud) You might also say, Imagine they are your
pairs. After they’ve done it once, ask them to
roommates. Could you live with them?
change roles and practice again. Then tell them
to practice a third time using different Speaking
B Read and listen to the conversation between
Strategy expressions in the conversation. Have
another group of roommates. Then answer the
one pair do their role play for the class.
questions. 73 15 min
Play the conversation and have students read
D Choose a situation and role-play it. Use the
along. At the end, give students a couple of
conversation in B and the expressions in the
minutes to answer the two questions with a
Speaking Strategy to help you. 10 min
partner. Check answers as a class. When you
Tell students to read the two situations. In both,
look at the answer to question 1, get students
Students A and B are roommates. Go over
to notice that Emilio doesn’t come right out and
unfamiliar vocabulary—e.g., washing machine
say directly to Adam, Be quiet. He politely (i.e.,
(the machine used to wash dirty clothes), forgot
indirectly) explains the situation (Actually, I’m
(the simple past of forget). Then tell each pair
trying to sleep and the game is a little loud.),
to choose one situation and create their own
which prompts Adam to say, Sorry about that.
conversation. They can use the one in B to
Emilio accepts Adam’s apology by saying,
help them, but it doesn’t have to be exactly the
No problem.
same. Students should practice their role play a
few times so that they are comfortable saying it
SPEAKING STRATEGY 74
without their notes.
After you listen to the conversation and discuss the
questions, say the Speaking Strategy expressions
E Perform your role play for another pair. Don’t read
aloud with students. Point out that we might say (I’m)
your conversation. 15 min
sorry / sorry about that if we do something simple,
like bump into someone. We often drop I’m in the
Have each pair get together with another and
first two expressions. I’m really sorry (or I’m so sorry)
do their role play. Remind students not to read
is stronger; we might say this if we do something
the conversation. Circulate, taking note of any
serious, like bump into someone and spill coffee
trouble spots for students. Then have one pair
on them. Point out, too, that sometimes we follow
do their role play for the class. At the end, go
an apology with a promise to do something. Tell
over any mistakes you heard.
© National Geographic Learning
students to look again at the conversation. Point out
how Adam says, We’ll be quiet. Explain to students
F Repeat D and E. Switch roles and do the other
that we can use will to promise to do something: We’ll
situation. 15 min
be quiet. (we’ll = we will) Finally, explain that we can
Have pairs change roles and create a new
use any of the expressions to respond to (accept)
conversation with the other situation.
an apology. You may now want to play the audio a
second time. Encourage students to read along and
echo what the speakers are saying. Take questions
from the class about any other new language. Then
play the audio a third time and have students repeat.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson A | 122a

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 122 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 240 ────────

Alternatively, teachers may wish to assign
GRAMMAR
the exercises in the Grammar Reference for
homework. Then, during the next class, put
WARM-UP 5 min
students into pairs and have them check
Tell students to look again at the conversation on
their answers.
the Speaking page. Direct them to the sentence in
which Emilio says to Adam, I don’t usually go to bed
this early.
C PRONUNCIATION: Frequency adverbs Listen
and write the adverbs in 1–3. Then say the
Ask, On most nights, does Emilio go to bed early?
sentences with a partner. 75 10 min
(Answer: No) Ask students what information helped
Have students listen and write the correct
them choose their answer. Direct students’ attention
adverbs. Pause after each sentence so
to the chart of frequency adverbs, and get them to
students have time to do this. At the end, say
notice where usually is on the list.
the sentences aloud with the class. Then have
students practice with a partner.
A Read about Emilio. Then circle the correct word in
sentences 1–3. 10 min
LANGUAGE TIP: Frequency adverbs
Look first at the frequency adverbs and say them
You may want to pay special attention to how these
aloud with the class (see Language Tip). Point
three adverbs are said.
to the line that shows their relative frequency
from 0 to 100%. If necessary, translate the words
• In everyday speech, many people say usually as
into students’ native language or have them look
“yoo-zh -lee.”
them up in a dictionary.
• The t in often is silent: “aw-f n.”
Next, look at the three sentences about Emilio.
• The final s in sometimes may sound like a soft
Read the first one aloud: Emilio is never late.
z, especially when the word is said on its own.
Point to the verb is and the word never. Then
When it comes before a word that starts with s,
look at Sentence 1. Ask, Does the frequency
the two words may be linked: Sometimes she’s
adverb never come before or after is? (Answer:
late for class.
after) To reinforce this idea, write on the board,
I’m ___ late. Call on individual students to
complete the sentence about themselves using
D Linda and Amy are roommates. They’re having
an adverb in the box. Do the same with the other
problems these days. In your notebook, write
two sentences about Emilio. Guide students to
each sentence with the frequency adverb given.
see where in a sentence the adverb is used.
10–15 min

Look at the photo and read the caption aloud.
B Read the Unit 9, Lesson A Grammar Reference
Take ideas from the class to answer the question.
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
(Possible answers: The other woman never
the exercises below. 30 min
cleans; her clothes are always in the washing
Have students look at the chart in the Grammar
machine.) Explain that one woman is Linda and
Reference. Review the rules for sometimes and
the other is Amy. They’re roommates and they are
usually with them. Then have students do the
having problems. Sentences 1–4 are the things
exercises. When they’re done, have them check
they are saying about each other. Tell students to
their answers in A (in the Grammar Reference)
work on their own to rewrite the sentences with
with a partner. Then check answers as a class.
the adverbs given. Do the first one with the class.
At the end, check answers together.
For B (in the Grammar Reference), tell students
to take turns reading their rewritten sentences
E Work with a partner. Use the sentences in D. One
aloud. Their partner should make sure the
person is Linda; the other is Amy. Talk about your
sentence is grammatically correct and then ask
problems. Can you make things better? 10–15 min
a follow-up question. Model this by doing item 1
© National Geographic Learning
with the class. Write on the board, I never make
Have students work in pairs. Tell them to use the
my bed in the morning. Ask, Is the sentence
sentences in D and their own ideas to role-play a
(grammatically) correct? Show a possible
conversation between the roommates. Encourage
follow-up question, Why not? (Possible answer:
students to use the language for apologizing
I don’t have time.) Then have students check
that they learned, too. Model the exercise with a
the rest of the items with their partners. At the
student, using the example. At the end, discuss
end, have volunteers share their answers with
with the class: Can the roommates make things
the class.
better? What can they do?

123a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 123 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 241 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read about Emilio. Then circle the correct word in sentences 1–3.
Frequency Adverbs
Emilio is never late.
always 100%
Emilio always pays his rent on time.
usually
often
Emilio doesn’t usually go to bed early.
sometimes
1. Frequency adverbs come before / after the verb be.
hardly ever
2. Most frequency adverbs come before / after other main verbs.
never 0%
3. Most frequency adverbs come before / after not.

B Read the Unit 9, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix.
Complete the exercises. Then do the exercises below.

C PRONUNCIATION: Frequency adverbs Listen and write the adverbs in 1–3. Then say the
sentences with a partner. 75
never
always
1. My roommate is home. He’s working.
usually
2. We do the chores together.
Sometimes often
3. we play video games. My roommate wins.

D Linda and Amy are roommates. They’re having problems these days. In your notebook, write each
sentence with the frequency adverb given.

Linda says: Amy says:

1. Amy takes out the trash. (hardly ever) 1. Linda is watching TV in the main room. I
Amy hardly ever takes out the trash.
can’t do my homework there. (always)
Linda is always watching TV in the main room.
2. Her dirty dishes are in the sink. (always) 2. She leaves her clothes in the washing
She usually
Her dirty dishes are always in the sink.
leaves her clothes in the washing
machine. (usually)
machine. / Usually she leaves her clothes in the washing machine.
3. She makes noise at night. (often) 3. She’s quiet in the morning. (never)
She often makes noise at night.
She’s never quiet in the morning.
4. She doesn’t pay her rent on time. (sometimes) 4. She goes out, but she doesn’t lock the front
Sometimes she doesn’t pay her rent on time. / She doesn’t pay her rent
door. (sometimes)
on time sometimes. / She sometimes doesn’t pay her rent on time.    Sometimes she goes out, but she doesn’t
lock the front door. / She goes out, but she doesn’t lock the front door
sometimes. / She goes out, but she sometimes doesn’t lock the front door.
E Work with a partner. Use the sentences in D. One person is Linda;
the other is Amy. Talk about your problems. Can you make
things better?

Amy, you hardly ever    I’m sorry about that, Linda.
take out the trash, and    I’m busy studying for exams.
your dirty dishes are . . .

© National Geographic Learning
Why is the woman on the right unhappy?

Lesson A | 123

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 123 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 242 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Imagine you are looking for a roommate to share your apartment. Read the questions below. In your
answers, use frequency adverbs.

ROOMMATE QUESTIONNAIRE
QUESTIONS My answer Partner 1: Partner 2: Partner 3:

1. Do you clean your
room often? How about
common areas?

2. After you cook, do you
do the dishes?

3. Do you study in your
own room?

4. When do you wake
up? When do you go
to bed?

5. What do you do on the
weekend? Do you ever
have parties?

6. Do you have a job? Do
you pay rent on time?

7. You forgot to take out
the trash. What do you
say to your roommate?
8. Your question:

B Use the questions in A to interview three classmates.
WORD BANK
Do you clean your room often?
Once a week means one
time a week.
Yeah, I usually clean my room and
make my bed every day. I also clean the
apartment once a week. How about you?

© National Geographic Learning
C Think about your three interviews. Who is the best roommate    Maria is the best roommate for me.
for you? Why? Tell a partner.    We’re very similar. For example, . . .

9A GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Explain how often I do things
2. Mostly, yes.
Make and respond to apologies    3. Not yet.

124 | UNIT 9

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 124 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 243 ────────

3. When you say go, students should take turns
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
doing their interviews as shown below. Call out
the letter combinations so students know which
WARM-UP 10–15 min
person to pair up with. Allow for about five
Write or project these sentence stems on the board:
minutes per round. When time is up, signal for
The perfect roommate always . . .
students to change partners.
He (or she) sometimes . . .
• In Round 1: A and B interview each other. C
and D interview each other.
He (or she) usually . . .
• In Round 2: A and C interview each other. B
He (or she) never or hardly ever . . .
and D interview each other.
Then ask the class to think about what makes a
• In Round 3: A and D interview each other. B
good roommate. If necessary, remind students that
and C interview each other.
roommates might share just one (dorm) room or a
whole house or apartment. Tell students to complete
the sentences with their ideas. Then have them
C Think about your three interviews. Who is the
share them with a partner. Take ideas from the class
best roommate for you? Why? Tell a partner.
and write them on the board.
10–15 min

Give students a few minutes to review the
information in their chart and make a decision.
LARGE CLASS OPTION
Then have students explain their choice.
In a larger class, teachers can put students in small
• If students interviewed classmates at random,
groups and assign each one a single sentence
assign them to a partner they did not interview
stem to complete with two or three ideas.
to explain their decision.
• If students worked in a group of four, they can
A Imagine you are looking for a roommate to share
explain their choice to the group.
your apartment. Read the questions below. In
Call on students to tell the class about their new
your answers, use frequency adverbs. 10 min
roommate and why they chose this person.
Read the directions aloud, making sure that
students understand that they are looking for a
Diagnostics
roommate to share an apartment. Go over the
Check students’ competencies as follows:
questions in the chart with the class. Tell students
• Can they talk about common household chores?
that they should think of their own question for
item 8. Brainstorm an idea or two with the class,
• Can they ask others about their habits and
using ideas for the “perfect roommate” that the
routines?
group thought of in the Warm-Up.
• Are they able to use frequency adverbs to talk
about how often they do something?
Then tell students to answer the questions about
themselves. In their answers, they should use
frequency adverbs. Model the first one for the
9A
GOALS
class, Do you clean your room often? A possible
answer is, Yes, I usually clean my room once a
Review students’ self-assessment in the
week. (Have students read the Word Bank for the
goals box. Point out to students where in the
meaning of once a week.)
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
they can review those exercises to improve
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
B Use the questions in A to interview three
Explain how often you do things: Grammar,
classmates. 20 min
page 123, A–E; Active English, page 124,
Have students move around the classroom and
A–C
interview three people. Tell them to write the
Make and respond to apologies: Speaking,
answers they receive in the chart.
© National Geographic Learningpage 122, B–F; Grammar, page 123, E
LARGE CLASS OPTION
In smaller classes, students can interview three
classmates at random. But in a larger class, it may
be better to set things up this way:

1. Put students in groups of four people.

2. Assign each person a letter: A, B, C, or D.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson A | 124a

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 124 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 244 ────────

A Read the information about teenagers in the US,
9B FRIENDS
paying special attention to the words in blue. How
do you think they feel about friendship? Circle a
VOCABULARY
number to complete the sentences. 15 min
Tell students to look quickly at the infographic.
WARM-UP 10 min
Point out the title. Read it aloud and have
Say the word friend aloud with the class. Then
students repeat. Ask, What is this mainly about?
look at the Word Bank with the different words that
(Answer: Friendship in the United States) Then
collocate with friend. Say the phrases aloud with the
tell students to read the sentences and circle
class. To illustrate their meanings—and the other
the number they think is correct. Do the first item
target vocabulary in blue—draw or project a simple
under “Number of Close Friends” with the class.
diagram like this:
Ask a student to read the statement aloud: 20% /
My Friends
98% say they have one or more close friends.
(Make sure that students know how to say the
word percent). Ask students to guess the answer.
best friend(s)
Then poll the class and ask a couple of students
to explain why they chose that answer. Have
good friend(s)
students read through the rest of the infographic,
circling the answers they think are correct.
ME
casual friend(s)
B Check your answers on page 217. Are any of the
answers surprising? Discuss with a partner.
5 min

Tell students to check their answers and
compare their results with a partner. Ask the
class if any of the answers were surprising to
them and if so, why. Also ask if these statements
In the center, write me. Then explain the relationships
are true in their country. If not, which ones are
to the class.
different?
• In the circle just beyond you is your best friend.
This is your most important friend. He or she is
C What about you? Check (✓) the statements
part of your “inner circle.” You can talk to your
that are true for you. Share your answers with a
best friend about anything. Maybe this person is
partner. 15 min
an old friend (you met years ago), but not always.
Ask students to read the statements. Tell them
Give an example from your life and write the
to check the answers that apply to them. Then
person’s name in the circle. For example, you
have them work in pairs to explain their choices.
might say something like: Hugo is my best friend.
As they do, tell them to use the friendship
I know him from high school and we’re still close.
diagram they created in the Warm-Up. With it,
(You can explain the meaning of close by showing
they can explain their answers in more detail.
the distance between you and your best friend in
Their partner should ask follow-up questions,
the diagram.) Note: Try to use the simple present
too. Then have pairs report back on what
when you talk about your friendships. Students
answers they had in common. Review any new
don’t know the simple past yet.
language that came up while students were
• In the next circle, you have good friends. You
talking and go over any errors with the class.
get along with these people (meaning you have
a good relationship with them). Maybe you hang
EXTRA! Your social network 15 min
out often (meaning you spend time with them).
You like these people a lot and you probably
Have students look again at the friendship diagram
have common interests.
they created in the Warm-Up. Draw connections
© National Geographic Learning
among the names of the people they wrote in the
• In the outer circle, you have casual friends. You
circles. For example, do your best friend and one
like these people, but you are not close to them.
of your casual friends know each other? If so, draw
You might see them sometimes, or you keep in
a line connecting them. Do the same with others
touch (stay in contact) on social media.
in your social network. Then explain some of these
When you’re done, tell students to create a
connections to the class; e.g., My best friend Hugo
friendship diagram in their notebook. In the circles,
and my friend Teresa know each other, but they’re
tell them to write the names of people who come to
not close. They see each other sometimes with me,
mind. Then ask: Which group is the biggest for you?
but they don’t hang out together. Then have students
(For most people, it will be their casual friends.)
explain three people in their social network to a
Then tell students to put this aside for the moment.
partner using vocabulary they learned in this lesson.
They’ll come back to it in a few minutes.

125a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 125 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 245 ────────

9B FRIENDS

VOCABULARY

A Read the information about teenagers in the US, paying special attention
WORD BANK
to the words in blue. How do you think they feel about friendship?
A child is 0–12 years old.
Circle a number to complete the sentences.
A teenager is
13–19 years old.
Friendship in the US
51% of teenagers say they get along well with others. What else do
WORD BANK
they say about friendship? Read below to find out!
friend
best ~, close ~,
Number of close friends
good ~, old ~
20% / 98% say they have one or more close friends. 20% / 98% say
they have six or more.

Good friends: Close or far away?
35% / 87% say they have a good friend at school. 35% / 87% have
a good friend who lives far away.

Meeting friends online or in person
• 15% of teens make friends with new people online.
• Friends like to keep in touch online. 24% / 60% say they spend
time with their friends online every day.
• Friends hang out in person, too. 24% / 60% say they meet their
friends in person every day.

B Check your answers on page 217. Are any of the answers surprising? Discuss with a partner.

C What about you? Check (✓) the statements that are true for you. Share your answers with a partner.
I have three or more close friends.    I like to hang out with my friends in person

I have a good friend at school.    more than online.

I keep in touch with my friends online.    I meet my friends in person every day.

Friends hang out
at a skate park.© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 125

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 125 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 246 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5 min
Tell students to read the title, the
How do friendships start?
short paragraph just below it, and
THE WONDERFUL
Many important friendships start when we’re
the two headings in bold. Ask,
young. Sometimes we’re children. Other times,
What do you think the reading is
we’re in high school or college. Two people meet
GIFT OF
about? (Answer: It’s about how we
and become best friends. The friendship lasts a
make friends and how friendships
long time.
FRIENDSHIP
change.)
Very often, it’s easy to make new friends when
we’re younger. There are some reasons for this.
We all need friends. Friendships start and
For one, we often make new friends at work or
sometimes they change. How does that
A Look at the photo and read
at school, or we live in the same neighborhood
happen? Let’s take a closer look.
as our friends. We spend a lot of time near1
the caption. Then answer the
each other, and it’s easy to get together2.
question below. Check (✓)
your answer and share it with
Also, we have more free time when we’re young.
We have many chances to hang out with our
a partner. 5 min
Tell students to look at the
photo and read the caption.
Then tell them to answer the
question and share it with a
partner. Take a quick class
poll. Which answers are
popular? Take reasons from a
few students.
Sometimes we make
friends at work. These
park rangers work in
Yosemite National Park.
B Use headings to predict.
Read the questions in bold in
the article. Think of one or more
answers to each question. Tell a
partner. 10 min
Tell students to read the two
questions in bold and think
of answers. Model this for
the class by writing the first
question on the board along
with one possible answer (e.g.,
we make friends in school).
Have students write their ideas
in their notebook and then
share them with a partner.

Use headings to predict. In
126 | UNIT 9
the article, the two headings
ask questions. Before reading,
students can guess how
the article will answer them.
Tell students to read the article
Cross out one answer to each
Students can use the photo
once and check if any of their
question. 10 min
as well as their own personal
ideas in B are mentioned.
Tell students to read the two
experience to help them
If they are, tell students to
© National Geographic Learning
questions and the three answer
guess. Then, when they read
underline them in the passage.
choices. For each question,
the article, they can check if
When students are done
they should cross out the
their predictions were correct.
reading, tell them to look up.
answer (a, b, or c) that is not
If not, they can note what was
Then go right into D.
talked about in the article. Tell
different.
them to read the article again
and make their selections.
D Answer negative fact
Check answers as a class. Ask
C Read the article. Are any of
questions. Read the article
students to explain how they
your ideas from B mentioned?
again. Which reason is not
arrived at their answers.
If yes, underline them. 5 min
mentioned in the article?

126 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 126 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 247 ────────

Answer negative fact
questions. On standardized
exams like the TOEFL, students
may be asked to answer
friends and have fun. When we do activities together,
negative fact questions. One
A Look at the photo and read the caption.
we become close friends.
Then answer the question below.
type gives readers three or
Check (✓) your answer and share
four answer choices, and they
it with a partner.
How do friendships change?
must figure out which one is
When we’re older, some friendships change. How
What is the best age for making
not mentioned in the text. To do
friends?
does this happen? We now have a job. Some of us
this, students must find each
have a family. Our lives are very busy. We don’t have
✓
as a child
a lot of time to hang out with friends.
answer in the reading. The
as a teenager
answer they cannot find in the
Also, some of us move away from our friends. We
in your twenties
don’t live near our friends anymore, and it’s hard to
passage is the correct choice.
in your thirties or older
keep in touch. We don’t do things together, and over
time, this changes the friendship.
B Use headings to predict. Read the
E Which things in D sometimes
questions in bold in the article. Think of
And finally, we change as we get older. Our
one or more answers to each question.
happen to you and your friends?
personalities3 are different. We want to do different
Tell a partner.
Tell a partner. 5–10 min
things. We spend time with different—and new—
friends. 76
Have students read the
C Read the article. Are any of your ideas
from B mentioned? If yes, underline
statements (a, b, c) in D again.
1If you live near something, you live close to it.
them.
2When you get together with someone, you meet up with them.
Do these things ever happen
3A person’s personality is how they are.
to them and their friends? To
D Read the article again. Which reason is
not mentioned in the article? Cross out
model this for the class, look,
one answer to each question.
for example, at 2a.: Friends
1. How do friendships start?
don’t live near each other and
a. Two people meet each other
it’s hard to meet. Say to the
online.
class something like this: This
b. People meet at work or at school.
happens to me sometimes.
c. People live near each other and
My best friend lives in another
spend time together.
city, so it’s hard to meet. Then
2. How do friendships change?
have students share their ideas
a. Friends don’t live near each other
and it’s hard to meet.
with a partner. Ask a couple
b. Friends have a big fight and stop
of volunteers to share their
talking to each other.
answers with the class.
c. Friends are busy and don’t have
time to meet.
F Tell a partner about one of your
E Which things in D sometimes happen
friends in as much detail as you
to you and your friends? Tell a partner.
can. 15–20 min
F Tell a partner about one of your friends
To help students talk about one
in as much detail as you can.
of their friends, project or write
My friend Cam and I are busy, but we
these questions on the board.
still hang out a lot together. We’re on
the same soccer team.
Tell students to make some
notes in their notebook.
Lesson B | 127
1. What kind of friend is he
or she (your best friend,
a good friend, a casual
friend)?
Finally, have students work in    NOTES
pairs. When you say go, one
2. How do you know your friend
person in each pair should
(from your neighborhood,
start talking about his or her
© National Geographic Learning
school, work, other friends)?
friend. The goal is to speak as
fluently as possible (i.e., without
3. Why do you like the person?
constantly hesitating) and
Then tell students to practice
without using notes for about
talking about their friend
a minute. When the speaker is
using their notes. Students
done, his or her partner should
should do this on their own,
ask a follow-up question or two.
rehearsing quietly. Tell them to
Then tell students to change
do this several times, until they
roles. This time, when you say
feel comfortable talking without
go, the other person should
their notes.
speak for a minute.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson B | 127

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 127 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 248 ────────

Finding Fukue (foo-koo-ay)
is a short film about two
childhood friends, Fukue
and Jessica.

LISTENING

A Do you remember your friends from childhood? Are you still friends
WORD BANK
with any of them?
remember forget

B Listen to the first part of a story about Jessica Stuart and her friend.
Complete the sentences. 77
nine Canada
1. Jessica is years old. She’s from . Her family goes to Japan. She
goes to school there.
student helps
2. Fukue is a , too. She goes to the same school. She Jessica.
school
3. They meet at . They start a friendship.

C Listen and sequence. Read the sentences. Listen. What happens in the story?
Number the parts from 1–7. 78
6    2
a. Jessica goes to Japan to find Fukue.    e. Jessica meets Fukue.
3    7
b. Jessica and Fukue hang out together.    f. Jessica finds Fukue.
1
c. Jessica’s family moves to Japan.    g. Jessica and Fukue don’t keep
4    5
d. Jessica’s family returns to Canada.    in touch.

D Listen again. Circle T for true or F for false. 78
1. The girls are in elementary school. T F
© National Geographic Learning
2. Jessica learns English from Fukue. T F
3. Jessica is a musician. T F
4. First, Jessica finds Fukue’s brother. T F
5. Jessica remembers Fukue, but T F
Fukue doesn’t remember Jessica.

E Can Fukue and Jessica be friends now? Can they keep in touch easily?

128 | UNIT 9

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 128 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 249 ────────

family moves to Japan. Ask students if they can
LISTENING
guess the order of the others. (Students already
heard some of this information in B.) Then play
WARM-UP 5 min
the audio and have students put the sentences
Have students look at the photo and read the
in order. Go over the answers with the class. Play
caption. Make sure that they understand the
the audio again as needed.
meaning of childhood (a time in our lives when we
are roughly ages three to twelve). Then ask, How
Listen and sequence. Certain kinds of
do Jessica and Fukue know each other? (They’re
listenings—like a story—require that we
friends.) How old do you think they are in this
understand a chronological order of events.
photo? (Answers will vary.) Where do you think the
Words and phrases that may be used to
girls are from? What is Finding Fukue? (It’s a movie.)
describe a sequence include first, at the start,
then, after (one year / 30 years), finally. Knowing
these words can help students follow along and
A Do you remember your friends from childhood?
understand what they hear.
Are you still friends with any of them? 5 min
Make sure that students understand the meaning
D Listen for details. Listen again. Circle T for true
of remember. Translate it into students’ native
or F for false. 78 10 min
language or tell them to look it up in their
In this exercise, students are “fact checking”—
dictionary. Then have students answer the
their goal is to determine if a statement is true or
questions with a partner. Take a class poll on
false. To do this, students must listen for specific
how many people are still friends with people
information. Do item 1 with the class. To help
from their childhood. For those who are, ask,
students, you may want to turn the statement
How often do you see your friend? For those who
(The girls are in elementary school.) into a
aren’t, ask why.
question (Are the girls in elementary school?).
Then play a clip from the beginning of the story
B Listen to the first part of a story about Jessica
that gives this info. Pause and have students
Stuart and her friend. Complete the sentences.
choose their answer.
77 10–15 min
Next, tell students to read sentences 2–5.
Tell students they are going to listen to a story
Then play the audio and have them circle their
about Jessica and Fukue. First, tell them to read
answers. At the end, tell students to correct the
the sentences and see if they can guess any
false statements. Check answers as a class. Play
answers. Then play the audio. Tell students to
the audio again as needed.
write a word in each blank. Check answers and
play the audio again as necessary.
Listen for details. Remind students that they do
not need to hear and understand everything in
As a follow-up, write these questions on the
order to understand specific details. Tell them to
board. Take answer from the class. Play the
identify key words to listen for before they listen.
audio again if needed.
1. When does Jessica move to Japan?
E Can Fukue and Jessica be friends now? Can they
2. Is Jessica popular at her new school—does
keep in touch easily? 5 min
she have a lot of friends?
Have students answer the two questions in
3. As children, are Jessica and Fukue close?
pairs. Tell them to explain their answers. Close
by polling the class. Ask individual students to
explain the reasons for their answers.
C Listen and sequence. Read the sentences.
Listen. What happens in the story? Number the
parts from 1–7. 78 10 min
EXPANSION 15 min
Tell students they are going to listen to the full
In pairs, have students create a short conversation
story about Jessica and Fukue. They will put the
imagining what Jessica and Fukue say on the day
© National Geographic Learning
story’s events in order from 1 (what happens first)
they meet as adults. Recycle language from Unit 4,
to 7 (what happens last). Before students listen,
in which students learned to say things like, How
write these phrases on the board: The story
are you doing? What are you doing these days?
starts . . . ; But soon . . . ; After one year . . . ;
Also show students how we use the expression
The years pass; After 30 years . . . ; again. They
Let’s keep in touch as a way to say goodbye to
will help students follow the story. Review any
someone and suggest that we stay in contact.
unfamiliar words with the class.
Have students write out their conversation and then
perform it for another pair.
Then tell students to read the seven sentences.
Point out the first event in the story: Jessica’s

Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson B | 128a

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 128 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 250 ────────

C Use the words in the box to complete the
GRAMMAR
questions. You will use some words more than
once. 5–10 min
WARM-UP 10 min
Have students work on their own or in pairs to
Tell students this grammar lesson is a review of
complete the questions with the words in the
asking questions. Some are Yes / No questions.
box. Check answers as a class.
Other are Wh- (information) questions. Project or
write on the board these question-and-answer pairs
about Jessica and Fukue’s story.
D Ask and answer the questions in C with a partner.
15–20 min
Q: Is ?
To start, tell students to answer questions 1–10 in
A: Yes, she is. Fukue is from Japan.
C in their notebooks. They don’t have to write in
Q: What ?
complete sentences; simple notes are enough.
A: Her friend’s name is Jessica.
Then put students into pairs and have them
take turns asking and answering the questions.
Q: Japan now?
They should ask their partner one follow-up
A: No, she doesn’t. Jessica lives in Canada now.
question each time, and take notes on their
partner’s responses in their notebooks. At the
Q: Where ?
end, ask students how similar or different their
A: Jessica lives in Toronto, Canada.
responses are. They can review their notes
and share this information with the class. While
Look at the first question. Ask students, What is
students are talking, circulate, noting any areas
the question? Write the correct answer: Is Fukue
where students have difficulty forming questions.
from Japan? Then do the same with the other three,
Review those areas with the class at the end.
having students call out questions.

Note: For a detailed walk-through of teaching
EXTRA! Friendship survey 45–60 min
Yes / No and Wh- questions with be, see Unit 1. For
1. Have students work with a partner to write two
information on teaching Yes / No and Wh- questions
questions about friendship. One should be a
with other verbs, see Units 5 and 7.
Yes / No question, the other a Wh- question.

2. Review and correct students’ questions with
A Read the Unit 9, Lesson B Grammar Reference
them as they finish. In larger classes, teachers
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
can put students in small groups to review each
the exercises below. 20 min
other’s questions.
Tell students to turn to the Grammar Reference
3. Tell students to interview six or more people
in the appendix and look at the chart. Again,
using their questions. Student A can ask six
remind students this is all review. For practice,
people the pair’s Yes / No question. Student B
have students do the exercises in the Grammar
can ask six people the Wh- question. Students
Reference. Students can complete the questions
should take notes on people’s replies. As part of
in A with their partner and then practice the
their interview, students may also want to gather
conversation together. Students can also do B
additional information about the people they
with their partner. Circulate, noting any areas
interview (e.g., age and gender).
where students struggle with forming questions.
Review those areas with the class.
Optional: Teachers can give students the option
of interviewing people in or out of class. Students
Alternatively, teachers may wish to assign the
can also be given the option of interviewing people
exercises in the appendix for homework. Then,
verbally or in writing (i.e., by posting their questions
during the next class, put students into pairs and
online for people to reply to).
have them review the exercises together.
4. Once students have collected their replies,
© National Geographic Learning
they can go over their findings with their
B Read each question and answer. Circle the letter
partner. Were there any common answers
of the incorrect part. 10 min
to a question? Any surprising ones? Are any
Explain the exercise to students: they should
answers different for different ages? Together,
read each question and answer, and then circle
each pair should create a short, two-minute
the part (A, B, C, or D) that is wrong. Teachers
presentation that summarizes people’s answers
may wish to treat this as a quick spot check
to their two questions. Students can present
that students do on their own. Another option
this to another pair.
would be to have students take turns asking and
answering the questions and together deciding
which part is incorrect.

129a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 129 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 251 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 9, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises.
Then do the exercises below.

REVIEW OF QUESTION FORMS: BE ANSWERS

Wh- word be Noun / Pronoun

Who ’s / is Jessica? She’s Fukue’s friend.
Where ’s / is Fukue? She’s in Japan.
Are they old friends? Yes, they are.
No, they aren’t. / No, they’re not.

REVIEW OF QUESTION FORMS: OTHER VERBS ANSWERS

Wh- word do Noun / Pronoun Verb

When do you hang out with friends? After school.
How long does she study? For about an hour.
Do you make friends easily? Yes, I do. / No, I don’t.

B Read each question and answer. Circle the letter of the incorrect part.
she’s
1. Is she your friend? No, she not.
A B C D
we
2. Are you and Jon good friends? Yes, they are.
A B C D
Does
3. Is Paolo have a lot of friends? Yes, he does.
A B C D
go
4. Does Amy goes to school every day? Yes, she does.
A B C D

C Use the words in the box to complete the questions. You will use some words
more than once.

are do how is what when where

When    do
1. you meet your friends?
Are
2. you a good listener?
How    do
3. many friends you have?
Where    do
4. you go with your friends?
Do
5. you keep in touch with your old friends?
What    do
6. you usually do with your friends?
Are
7. your friends the same age as you?
© National Geographic Learning
Where / What    is
8. a good place to meet new friends?
Do
9. you have a best friend?
How    do
10. you keep in touch with your friends?

D Ask and answer the questions in C with a partner.

Lesson B | 129

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 129 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 252 ────────

Two good friends meet
at their favorite cafe.

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Read the sentence about friendship. Do you agree with it? Discuss with a partner.
A good friend is hard to find.

B Unscramble the words to make questions.
What are these sentences about?
1. are / sentences / what / about / these
What does this sentence mean?
2. mean / does / sentence / this / what
Do you agree with these ideas?
3. with / ideas / you / these / do / agree
Which one is your favorite?
4. which / favorite / is / one / your

C Work with a partner. Take turns asking and answering the questions in B about these sentences.
1. It’s hard to keep in touch with old friends.    3. Your friends are the same as your family.
2. Good friends are good listeners.    4. Be slow to start and slow to end a friendship.

D WRITING Choose an idea from C. Copy the sentence and write about your own experience.
It’s hard to keep in touch with old friends. I know Mia from junior high school. We’re the same age.
Sometimes we text, but I don’t see her anymore. She lives far away. I miss her.*

*I miss her means I feel sad because I can’t see her anymore.

© National Geographic Learning
9B GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Talk about friendship
2. Mostly, yes.
Ask questions about friends
3. Not yet.

130 | UNIT 9

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 130 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 253 ────────

EXPANSION 10 min
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
Tell students to choose two of the friendship
WARM-UP 5 min
expressions the class brainstormed in the
Ask students if there are any sayings (expressions
Warm-Up and to answer question 3 in B about the
or proverbs) about friends or friendship in their
expressions. Have each pair share their thoughts
language. See if students can translate these into
about one of the expressions with the class.
English. For each expression, ask, What does the
expression mean? Take ideas from the class and
D WRITING Choose an idea from C. Copy the
write them on the board.
sentence and write about your own experience.
20 min
A Read the sentence about friendship. Do you
Tell students to read the example. Then write or
agree with it? Discuss with a partner. 5 min
project these questions for students to answer
Read the expression aloud. Make sure that
with a partner. Go over the answers with the class.
students understand the phrase hard to find
1. What sentence in C is the person in D writing
(meaning something we don’t find or have
about? (Answer: the first sentence)
easily). Ask, What does this expression mean?
Give students a minute to discuss this with a
2. Does the writer agree with the sentence?
partner. Then take ideas from the class. Guide
Why or why not? (Answer: Yes. The writer
students to understand that it’s a saying meaning
says her friend lives far away, and she
that it’s not easy to make good friends. Do
doesn’t see her anymore. They only text
students agree with this or not? Have them tell a
sometimes.)
partner and explain their answer. Poll the class
on how many people agree and don’t agree.
Then have students choose a statement from
Have individual students explain why.
C and write a few sentences about their own
experience or opinion. When students are done,
have them share their writing with a partner.
B Unscramble the words to make questions.
Students can answer the two questions on the
10 min
board (above) about their partner’s writing.
In B, students will unscramble the words to make
four questions that they will later use in C. Do item 1
Diagnostics
with the class. To help students get started, write
Check students’ competencies as follows:
What . . .? on the board. Ask students to complete
• Can they give opinions about friendship?
the question in their books. Then ask a volunteer to
read the answer aloud. Finally, have students work
• Can they ask and answer Yes / No questions
on their own or in pairs to complete items 2–4.
about friends?
Check answers as a class.
• Can they ask and answer Wh- questions about
friends?
C Work with a partner. Take turns asking and
answering the questions in B about these
9B
GOALS
sentences. 15 min
Review students’ self-assessment in the
Ask students to read the four statements in C.
goals box. Point out to students where in the
To model what students do in this exercise, read
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
the first question in B aloud. Take ideas from the
they can review those exercises to improve
class. (Answer: They are all expressions about
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
friends / friendship.) Next, give students a few
minutes to work on their own to answer questions
Talk about friendship: Vocabulary,
2–4 in B about the four statements in C. Students
page 125, A and B; Reading, page 127,
should write their answers in note form in their
A–F; Listening, page 128, A–E; Grammar,
© National Geographic Learning
notebooks. Finally, have students work in pairs.
page 129, A–D; Active English, page 130,
Tell them to ask and answer questions 2–4 in B
A–D
about the friendship statements. Model this with
Ask questions about friends: Listening, page
a student so learners know what to do. Close
128, A; Grammar, page 129, A–D; Active
by asking students which expression is their
English, page 130, B and C
favorite. Then review any language that students
struggled with during the exercise.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson B | 130a

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 130 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 254 ────────

C Read the sentences about Alex. Watch the video
GLOBAL VOICES
again. Circle the correct words. 15 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Play the video again. As Alex answers each
question, tell students to take notes on what he
Have students look at the words friend and enemy
says. Model this for the class by showing how
in the Word Bank. Make sure they understand that
you write only key words. For example, when Alex
an enemy is a person who is the opposite of a
replies to the first on-screen prompt Tell me about
friend. This person doesn’t like you and might hurt
your best friend, students might write old friends,
you. Then write the word frenemy on the board.
get along great, like sports, dancing. When
Explain that it is a combination of the words friend
Alex answers question 1 (Why do you like him?)
and enemy. Ask, What do you think a frenemy is?
students might write: close friends, talk about
Write ideas on the board.
anything, gives good advice. Pause after each
question so students have time to make notes.
ABOUT THE VIDEO
Have students read sentences 1–8. Tell them
Alex Sigrist is a digital content creator from the US
to guess some of the answers based on things
who lives and works in Seoul, South Korea. In the
they’ve already heard. Then play the video and
video, Alex answers questions about the people he
have students choose their answers. At the end,
is friends with.
call on individual students to read sentences 1–8
aloud.
A Read about Jackson and David. Then complete
the sentences with the words in the box. 10 min
EXPANSION 10 min
Have students complete the sentences. At
Write on the board or project these questions and
the end, check answers. Ask students, Are
have students use their answers in 1–8 in C and the
Jackson and David good friends? Why or why
notes they took to answer them. At the end, go over
not? Compare the definition of frenemy in this
the questions with the class.
exercise with the one the class brainstormed in
the Warm-Up.
1. Mike is Alex’s best friend. Why does Alex like him?
2. What things does Alex do with his friends?
B Watch the video. Complete the questions. 10 min
3. Does Alex have any frenemies?
Tell students that in the video, a man named Alex
4. Does Alex talk to his friends often?
is interviewed about his friends. He answers the
six questions in B about these people. Have
5. How does Alex meet new people? In his
students work on their own to see if they can
opinion, is it easy to make friends?
complete the questions. (Note: There are both
Yes / No and Wh- questions.) Then have them
compare their answers with a partner. After
D Reread the sentences in C. Complete the task.
students have done this, play the video. Have
10–15 min
students check their answers as they watch the
Tell students to read sentences 1–8 and to
video.
change some parts to talk about themselves. To
model this, write sentences 2 and 3 from C on
Ask students who Alex is talking about at the
the board. Show how you change the underlined
beginning. (Answer: his best friend, Mike) When
words so they are about you:
the first question comes up on screen (Why
do you like him?), pause the video so students
They both like sports ➔ We both like . . .
have a chance to write why to complete the
and dancing.
question in their book. Then play the rest of the
video, pausing each time a question comes up
Alex hangs out with his ➔ I . . . with my friends
so students have a chance to write. At the end,
friends and they talk. and we . . .
check answers with the class.
Give students a few minutes to write their
As a follow-up, have students work in pairs and
© National Geographic Learningown sentences in their notebooks. Then have
read through the six questions. Can they recall
students work in pairs and take turns saying
how Alex answered any of them? Have them
their sentences. They should ask their partner a
make some notes.
follow-up question for each sentence.

131a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 131 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 255 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A Read about Jackson and David. Then complete the sentences with the
WORD BANK
words in the box.
friend enemy

classmates close fight same spend

classmates    fight
1. Jackson and David are .    4. They sometimes, too.
close
2. They’re friends, but not friends.    5. They’re “frenemies”: both friends and
spend    same
3. They time together sometimes.    enemies at the time.

B Watch the video. Complete the questions.
Why    Do
1. do you like him?    4. you have any “frenemies”?
Why
What
2. do you usually do with your friends?    are you friends with these people?
Do    How
3. you sometimes fight with your    5. often do you talk to your friends?
Is
friends?    6. it easy for you to make friends?

C Read the sentences about Alex. Watch the video again. Circle the correct words.
1. Mike is his old / new friend.
5. Alex has / doesn’t have frenemies.
2. They both like movies / sports and
6. He video chats / doesn’t video chat with
dancing.
his friends.

3. Alex hangs out with his friends, and they
7. He says it’s easy / hard to make good
talk / go out.
friends.

4. They also play soccer / basketball
8. He meets new people at work and at
together.
parties / school.

D Reread the sentences in C. Complete the task.
I hang out with my friends, and
1. Make the sentences in C about yourself.
we talk. Alex and I are similar.
he / his ➔ I / my    they ➔ we
Alex ➔ I    Mike ➔ your friend’s name

2. Are you the same as Alex? Tell a partner.

© National Geographic Learning

Are these two men
friends or “frenemies”?

Lesson B | 131

WLTB_INT_U09_ptg01.indd 131 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 256 ────────

REAL WORLD LINK AN OUTDOOR FESTIVAL
At this summer music festival in California, US, a 36-foot-tall
(almost 11 meters) astronaut moves across the grounds.

A Answer the questions. Then share your answers with a partner.
1. How often do you attend festivals?
often hardly ever

sometimes never

2. What kind of festivals or outdoor* events do you go to?

B Read the information about a festival. Guess the missing words. Then listen and write the missing
words. What do you think of the festival? 79

SUMMER FESTIVAL: OUTDOORS IN THE CITY!
Do you live and work in the city? Do you also like to spend time outdoors? Well, we have an
exciting festival for you!
© National Geographic LearningAugust    events
• For 10 days in , our outdoor festival has many free at
different places around the city.

• Many people attend the festival with their friends and family. Other people come alone
and make new friends    . Everyone gets along at the festival!

• Our festival is always    very popular, so get your tickets online soon!

*outdoor = not inside

132

WLTB_INT_RWL03_ptg01.indd 2 22/05/21 5:59 PM

──────── Page 257 ────────

C Unscramble the questions. Then, with a partner,
REAL WORLD LINK:
ask and answer the questions about the festival
AN OUTDOOR FESTIVAL,
in B. 15 min
Units 7–9
Have students unscramble all the questions
in 1–8 individually. Then check their answers,
WARM-UP 5–10 min
writing them correctly on the board, if necessary.
Ask students to look at the photo of a summer
Everyone needs to be certain of the answers
music festival and read the caption. Ask, Where is
before they start the pairwork. Next, assign
it? (California) and then ask students to write down
students to pairs and have Student A ask
five things they can see in the photo; for example,
questions 1, 3, 5, and 7 to Student B, who
people, T-shirt, shorts, grass, tower, the colors of
will answer them. Then have Student B ask
green, yellow, orange and red, blue sky. Then invite
Student A questions 2, 4, 6, and 8.
students to read their list of words aloud; write a
selection on the board as they do so. Finally, ask,
Would you like to go to this music festival? Why or
NOTES
why not?

A Answer the questions. Then share your answers
with a partner. 5 min
Give students time to read the questions and
check their understanding. Ask students if they
remember the grammatical name for words
like often, sometimes, hardly ever, and never.
If they don’t remember that these words are
called frequency adverbs, tell them to look back
through Unit 9 for the answer. Have students
answer the questions and then compare with a
partner.

TEACHING TIP: Referring back

Whenever you have a chance, remind students of
language points they learned in earlier units and
encourage them to refer back to them during a
lesson, if necessary. It’s a useful way to review and
recycle language.

EXTRA! Listening for gist 79 5 min
With a stronger class, before moving to B, ask
students to close their books and listen to the audio.
Ask them to listen and answer three questions: What
is the event? Where is it? When is it? (Answers: A
summer festival in New York City in August) This
adds further listening practice and some challenge
before students listen again in B.

B Read the information about a festival. Guess the
© National Geographic Learning
missing words. Then listen and write the missing
words. What do you think of the festival?
79 10 min

Have students read the text and guess what
type of word is missing in each blank. They
can guess the type of word from context (e.g.,
a month) or its position in the sentence (e.g., a
noun or adverb). Then play the audio twice; on
the second listening, pause the audio after each
missing word and write it on the board.

Teacher’s Book UNITS 7–9 | 132a

WLTB_INT_RWL03_ptg01.indd 3 22/05/21 5:59 PM

──────── Page 258 ────────

D Read about the outdoor event ideas. Rank them
G You Choose Choose an option to tell others
from 1 (most fun) to 6 (least fun). Share your
about your event(s). 30–40 min
ideas with a partner. 10–15 min
Have students choose one of the options and
As students read about the different outdoor
create it in class or for homework. For Option 1,
events, you might need to help with vocabulary
students might need large sheets of paper to
and also clarify the idea behind the event,
write on. They could create a similar chart to the
as some of them might not normally exist in
one shown in E, or they could turn it into more
students’ own countries or culture(s). Once
of an ad for the event and convince people to
students understand the events, have them
attend it. If you are teaching online, Option 2
rank them from the most to the least fun. Then
would be a good choice because students could
have students compare their lists in pairs or in
write their social media post and then share it
small groups. To extend and add challenge to
on the platform or LMS you are using. Similarly,
this exercise, have students try to come to an
if students record audio for Option 3, they could
agreement on the order. Finally, have them report
share the audio file online with their peers.
back to the whole class and see if everyone
agrees what is fun (and what isn’t).
H Read about or listen to your partner’s event(s).
Do you want to attend? Why or why not? 10 min
E You are planning your own summer outdoor
Once students have read or listened to each
festival. Think of three fun events. Choose ideas
other’s work, have them give feedback and say
from D or use your own ideas. In your notebook,
why they would or wouldn’t attend.
write this information about your three events:
event name, location, day, and time. 10 min
TEACHING TIP: Peer feedback
On their own, have students choose events
When students give peer feedback to each other
from D or add their own ideas. As students list
(as in H), make sure they are generally positive. If
information about each event, monitor their
necessary, talk to students about how feedback
progress and help individuals with ideas and
should always include something positive and
vocabulary. You could draw this chart on the
then one suggestion for something to add or one
board and have students structure their notes by
thing to improve. For this kind of task, you could
copying it down and filling it in.
even provide useful phrases for them to use and
structure their positive constructive feedback, like
Event 1 Event 2 Event 3
this:
Name of event
One thing I liked about your idea / event /
Location
presentation is . . .
Day and time
Any other details?
One thing you could also try / add / change is . . .

TEACHING OPTION
NOTES
In E, F, G, and H, students are working alone to
create their own outdoor summer festival and then
present it to a partner. However, you could put
students in pairs to create the event and then have
them present to another pair; this might be more
effective if your class is of mixed ability.

F Work with a partner. Complete the task and then
switch roles. 10–15 min
© National Geographic Learning
Have students list their events with details and
have their partner ask a follow-up question.
Draw their attention to the information note for
Follow-up questions. Partners could also make
suggestions about each event and what else
might happen at each one.

133a | Teacher’s Book UNITS 7–9

WLTB_INT_RWL03_ptg01.indd 4 22/05/21 5:59 PM

──────── Page 259 ────────

UNITS 7–9
C Unscramble the questions. Then, with a partner, ask and answer the questions about the festival in B.
Student A: Ask questions 1, 3, 5, and 7.

Student B: Ask questions 2, 4, 6, and 8.

1. season / in / what / it / does / happen    5. it / anything / cost / to attend / does
What season does it happen in? in summer    Does it cost anything to attend? No, it
doesn’t. It’s free.
2. who / the / is / festival / for    6. the / place / events / one / are / in
Who is the festival for? people in the city    Are the events in one place? No, they aren’t.
They’re in different places around the city.
3. festival / how / is / long / the    7. with / do / people / go / who / usually
How long is the festival? ten days    Who do people usually go with? family and friends

4. take / does / in / it / what / place / month    8. a / event / it / friendly / is
What month does it take place in? August    Is it a friendly event? Yes, it is. Everyone gets along.

D Read about the outdoor event ideas. Rank them from 1 (most fun) to 6 (least fun).
Share your ideas with a partner.

Event ideas
Rooftop yoga class: Practice yoga with beautiful city views.
Beach cleanup: Pick up garbage on the beach.
Learn to read a map: Prepare for your next trip.
Go to a concert: Listen to great music under the stars.
See a movie: Go for a picnic and stay for an outdoor movie.
Go for a nighttime run in the park: Use a headlamp to see.

E You are planning your own summer outdoor festival. Think of three fun events. Choose ideas from
D or use your own ideas. In your notebook, write this information about your three events: event
name, location, day, and time.

F Work with a partner. Complete the task and then switch roles.
i Follow-up questions
How long is the event?
Student A: Tell your partner about your three events in E.
Do I need to bring anything?
It’s my first time. Is that OK?
Student B: Listen. Then ask a follow-up question about each event.

G You Choose Choose an option to tell others about your event(s).
Option 1: Make a chart with the schedule for your three events.
Present the information to a partner. Talk about each event.
My first event is a movie
Option 2: Choose one of your events. Write a social media post
night at Baker Park. It’s
on Saturday at 8:45.
about it. Give the basic information and one or two
© National Geographic Learning
interesting details.
It sounds fun. How
much does it cost?
Option 3: Choose one of your events. Write a script and record a
radio ad for the event.

H Read about or listen to your partner’s event(s). Do you want to attend? Why or why not?

133

WLTB_INT_RWL03_ptg01.indd 5 22/05/21 5:59 PM

──────── Page 260 ────────

UNIT 10

10
ABOUT THE PHOTO
Ting1 is an apartment building
in the city of Ornskoldsvik in
northern Sweden. Designed by
architect Gert Wingardh, Ting1
HOME
is best known for its multicolored
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
exterior and seventy-eight
QUESTIONS.
protruding glass balconies.
1. Do you like this apartment building? Why or
Because of its shape, locals have
why not?
nicknamed the building “the Lego
2. Look in the windows. What things do you see
in the rooms? Check (✓) your answers.
House.”
bed people

chairs table
INTRODUCE THE THEME
door window
The home we live in and how we
kitchen curtains
decorate it can tell others a lot
about us and what we value. In
WARM-UP VIDEO
this unit, students describe their
living space and the things in it.
A In your house, are the rooms big or small?
Tell a partner.
In Lesson A, students learn to
talk about rooms in a home and
B Watch the video with the sound off. Check (✓)
the three things people are doing in each room.
the objects in them. They also
Room 1
describe what their own personal
cooking reading
✓
space looks like. In Lesson B,
playing sleeping
students explore how colors
✓    ✓

affect our feelings and how they
Room 2

can be used to enhance a room.
cooking reading
✓
The unit closes with a National
eating and drinking watching TV
✓    ✓
Geographic Explorer taking
Room 3
viewers on a tour of his energyeating studying
✓    ✓
efficient home.
✓
sleeping watching TV

C Watch the video again. Which rooms in B do
WARM-UP 5 min
you like? Why? Tell a partner.

Write Home on the board and
I like Room 2.
It has a big TV.
brainstorm any words students
I don’t like Room 2.
may know in English related
It’s too small. I like Room 3.
to this topic (e.g., apartment,
bed, room, washing machine).
For types of homes, brainstorm
different places people live,
including words used locally
(e.g., apartment, house, condo,
dorm, villa). Use a word web to
kitchen, table, window) and tell
solutions company—demonstrates
map out students’ ideas.
students to use their dictionaries
that even a small room can be
There’s no need to pre-teach a
to look up those they don’t know.
multifunctional if the layout and
lot of vocabulary at this point;
Then give pairs a few minutes to
furniture are utilized creatively.
just see what students know and
answer the questions. When time is
Students will see this idea applied
© National Geographic Learning
add their ideas to the diagram. If
up, poll the class on question one:
to three different rooms in the video.
possible, leave the word web on
how many people like this building
the board so that, over the course
and why. How many don’t? For
Warm-Up 5 min
of the unit, students can add to it.
question two, ask students which
Introduce the idea of space. Use
things they can see in the photo.
pictures or drawings on the board
Look at the photo. Answer the
to clarify the concept. Say, In a
questions. 5–10 min
big room, you have a lot of space;
WARM-UP VIDEO
Put students in pairs. For question
in a small room, you don’t. Ask,
About the video
two, say the new words with
Do you have a lot of space?
This video—created by IKEA, an
the class (chair, curtains, door,
innovative furniture and space

134 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 10

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 60 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 261 ────────

A In your house, are the rooms
big or small? Tell a partner.
5 min

Elicit the meaning of big and
small. Have students mime
the meaning of these words.
Then have students answer
the question with a partner.
Reinforce the idea that a big
room has a lot of space; a
small room has very little. Take
This colorful apartment
building was built in
ideas from the class.
northern Sweden in 2013.

B Watch the video with the sound
off. Check (✓) the three things
people are doing in each room.
10 min

Tell students that they will
see three small rooms in the
video. Then ask them to read
the list of actions for each
room. Explain that, as they
watch, they should check
the three actions people are
doing. Play the video with
the sound off. Once a room
segment finishes, pause the
video so that students have
time to check their answers. If
necessary, play that part of the
video again. Don’t worry about
teaching a lot of vocabulary in
the video at this point. It will be
introduced in Lesson A, and
there will be an opportunity to
return to this video for practice.

GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
TEACHING TIP: Silent viewing
/ Identify objects and rooms in a home    / Describe rooms in a house
/ Show surprise    / Talk about ways to improve
One way to take advantage of
a room or house
video that might otherwise be
inaccessible for beginners (due
to the level of language used)
is to show a video clip entirely
C Watch the video again. Which
It’s big / small / tidy /
without sound. For example, the
rooms in B do you like? Why?
organized / crowded.; I like /
spoken language in this IKEA
Tell a partner. 10 min
don’t like the colors.
advertisement is above level in
Play the video again with the
places. The clip’s visual content,
At the end, have students
© National Geographic Learning
sound still off. Tell students
however, is quite rich. Instructors
compare their opinions with a
to focus on whether they like
can use this alone to activate
partner. Then poll the class.
each room or not. For support
language, generate conversation,
Which room(s) do students like
explaining why, put these
and get students thinking about
the most and why?
sentences on the board for
the unit theme—without the need
students to use:
for audio at all.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 10 | 135

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 61 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 262 ────────

10A AT HOME

VOCABULARY

5

1    4

2

3

In the apartment
1. kitchen
2. dining area
3. living room
4. bedroom
5. bathroom

A Look at the apartment. Say words 1–5 with your teacher.

B Practice with a partner. Point to a place in the apartment and say it.
This is the kitchen.
Take turns. Then cover words 1–5 and practice again.

© National Geographic Learning
C Say the words in the Word Bank. Watch your teacher point to the things in
WORD BANK
the picture.
bed
closet
shower with bathtub
D With a partner, make sentences. Point to the things in the picture.
sofa
There’s a in the .
table with four chairs
room / area

E Look at the apartment again. Is your home similar or different?
My home is different.
It has two bedrooms.

136 | UNIT 10

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 62 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 263 ────────

E Look at the apartment again. Is your home similar
10A AT HOME
or different? 5 min
Have students think about their own home.
VOCABULARY
In what ways is it similar to the apartment in
the picture? How is it different? Point out the
WARM-UP 5 min
example. Give students a minute or so to think
Have students look at the picture. Ask, What type
of their sentences and then have them tell a
of home is this? Do you like it? Why or why not?
partner. Take ideas from a few students.
Remind students of the word web on the board that
you created for the Unit Opener Warm-Up. Take
EXTRA! Video viewing, part two 15–20 min
ideas from students.
On the board, write the following chart:

A Look at the apartment. Say words 1–5 with your
Type of room(s) What’s NOT in the room
teacher. 5 min
Room 1 living room /    bed lamp rug plant
Say the rooms in the box with students, pointing
bedroom    shower sofa table
to each room in the picture as you say it. Have
Room 2 books chairs closet
students repeat.
lamps table TV
window
LANGUAGE TIP: Compound nouns
Room 3 beds bike chairs
Four of the five rooms in the box are compound
lamps sofa table
nouns: two nouns joined together to talk about one
window
thing. Sometimes, they are single words (bedroom,
Tell students to copy this chart into their notebook.
bathroom). Other times, they are two (dining area,
Then have them check the meaning of the words
living room). In compound nouns like the ones
in the last column. Students can do this in pairs by
on this page, stress is placed on the first word
having one person say the word in English (bed)
(bedroom) or the first syllable in the first word
and the other student can draw it.
(living room).

Then have students close their books. Explain that
you’re going to show the Warm-Up video again. As
B Practice with a partner. Point to a place in the
each room comes on screen, students should . . .
apartment and say it. Take turns. Then cover
words 1–5 and practice again. 10 min
• write what type of room it is (each room is a
Have students point to and say the names of
combination of more than one room). The first
different rooms with a partner. After students
one is done as an example.
do this a couple of times, tell them to cover the
• circle the item(s) NOT in the room. In one case,
words in the box and practice again.
two things aren’t in the room.
Then play the video. Pause after each room
C Say the words in the Word Bank. Watch your
segment so students have time to write their
teacher point to the things in the picture. 5 min
answers. At the end, go over the correct answers.
Ask students to cover the Word Bank. Then point
Play the video again. For each correct answer,
to a few things in the picture that students may
students get a point.
already know the word for—e.g., door, table,
Room 1 is a living room / bedroom. Not in the room:
chair, TV, bed, window. See if students can
a shower
remember the words. Then have them uncover
the Word Bank. Say each word aloud with the
Room 2 is a living / dining area. Not in the room:
class as you point to the items.
a closet

Room 3 is a kitchen / bedroom. Not in the room:
D With a partner, make sentences. Point to the
© National Geographic Learninga sofa and a
things in the picture. 5 min
window
Have students describe each room and the
things in it using the sentence stem. Model one
for the class and have students repeat: There’s a
sofa in the living room.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson A | 136a

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 63 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 264 ────────

B Listen for details. Listen to a speaker talk about
LISTENING
the Copan Building. Write a number. 80 10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Have students read items 1–4. Then play the
audio and tell students to write a number.
Say the sentences in the Word Bank with the class.
Remind them that they only need to focus on this
Get students to notice the difference between live in
information. At the end, have students check
and live on, and go over the meaning of floor. Note
answers with a partner. Then check answers as
that students learned the word building in Unit 6,
a class. Play the audio again as needed.
but practice saying the word again with the class a
few times.
Listen for details. In B, C, and D, students are
listening for details. Remind them that they do
not need to understand everything that’s said;
LANGUAGE TIP: floor
they only need to listen for the information they
In English, the word floor can refer to the place
need. Before they listen, remind students to read
beneath your feet that you stand on in a room. It’s
the sentences or questions so they know which
also used to talk about a level in a building (the
information to attend to.
first / second floor). The ground floor in a building
is at street level. Sometimes this floor is occupied
C The speaker talks about an apartment in the
by commercial tenants (e.g., stores, restaurants).
building. 81 10 min
Above the ground floor are other floors where
people live or work.
Explain to students that they will hear about an
apartment in the Copan Building.

A Build background knowledge. Read the
Explain the word view. Have students read
sentences in the Word Bank. Then look at the
items 1–8. Then play the audio and tell students
photo. Answer the questions. 10 min
to choose the correct answers. Remind them
that they only need to focus on this information.
For question 2, build background knowledge
At the end, check answers as a class. Play the
by asking students where the Copan Building
audio again as needed.
is and why it’s big. Draw students’ attention to
the meaning of thousand and illustrate it with
a few other examples (1,000; 2,000). Then tell
D Listen again. Choose T for true or F for false.
students they are going to learn more about the
Correct the false sentences. 81 10 min
Copan Building in the listening. Give students a
Ask students to read the five sentences. Then
couple of minutes to answer the questions with a
play the audio and have them choose their
partner. Then go over them with the class.
answers. You may need to do this more than
once. At the end, tell students to correct the false
Build background knowledge. When teachers
sentences. Play the audio again so students can
activate prior knowledge before students
check their ideas. Check answers as a class.
listen to something, they get students to think
about what they already know about a given
topic. Sometimes instructors also need to build
E Discuss the questions with a partner. 10 min
background—that is, provide new information
Give students a couple of minutes to answer the
to help students connect with the content and
questions with a partner. Ask them to also think
understand what they will hear. This might involve
about whether the Copan Building is a good
introducing key vocabulary as well as facts
place to stay if you’re visiting São Paulo. Take
related to the subject matter—as is done in A.
ideas from the class.

CULTURE TIP: The Copan Building

Located in central São Paulo, the Copan Building
was the dream of architect Oscar Niemeyer, who
wanted to build a place for people from all walks of
© National Geographic Learning
Brazilian society. It is one of the largest residential
buildings in Latin America, and today is home to
artists and freelancers as well as the very wealthy.
Apartments range from 300 square feet (about
28 square meters) to 4,500 square feet (418 square
meters). A rooftop terrace is open to the public,
where visitors can take in São Paulo’s expansive
view.

137a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 64 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 265 ────────

LISTENING

A Build background knowledge. Read the sentences in the
WORD BANK
Word Bank. Then look at the photo. Answer the questions.
I live in an apartment / house.
1. Do you live in an apartment building? If yes, on what floor?
I live on the third floor.
2. Where is the Copan Building? Is it big or small? How many
A store is on the ground (1st)
floor.
people live there?

B Listen to a speaker talk about the Copan Building. Write a number. 80
1962 20
1. The year it opened: 3. Number of elevators:
38    over 1,000
2. Number of floors: 4. Number of apartments:

WORD BANK
C The speaker talks about an apartment in the building. 81
elevator
1. Read items 1–8.
2. Then listen. Choose the correct answers.
The apartment has .
✓    ✓
1. a view    4. a big living area    7. a bathroom with a
✓
2. two bedrooms    5. a kitchen area    large shower
✓
3. two beds    6. a big closet    8. a washing machine

D Listen again. Choose T for true or F for
false. Correct the false sentences. 81
Five thousand (5,000) people live
1. The apartment is on the
in the Copan Building in São Paulo,
Brazil. The building is so
23rd floor
third floor. T F
large it has its
2. You do laundry on the
own zip code.
second floor. T F
on the ground floor
3. There are over 70
businesses on the
ground floor. T F

4. A gym and art gallery
are in the building. T F

5. You can walk to the
subway in 15 minutes. T F
five minutes

E Discuss the questions with a partner.
1. Is the apartment a good place to
live? Why or why not?
© National Geographic Learning
2. Are there apartment buildings like
the Copan in your city?

My city is small. We live in
houses, not apartments.

Lesson A | 137

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 65 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 266 ────────

Colorful staircases in
SPEAKING
Bugis Village, Singapore

A Read and listen to the
WORD BANK
conversation. Then answer
rent
the questions. 82
stairs
up down
1. What things are good about
Jun’s new apartment?
His place is big and the rent is cheap.
2. What’s the problem with it?
There’s no elevator and he’s on the fifth floor.
Max: So, Jun, how’s your new place?

Jun: Great. Look, I’ve got some photos on
my phone.

Max: Nice. It’s big.

Jun: Yeah, and the rent is cheap.

Max: Really? That’s great.

Jun: Yeah, I like it. There’s just one problem.

Max: What’s that?

Jun: There’s no elevator and I’m on the fifth floor.

Max: No way. So you walk up and down the
stairs every day?

Jun: Yeah. It’s not easy!

B PRONUNCIATION: Showing surprise
SPEAKING STRATEGY 84
Listen once to the sentences. Then listen
Showing Surprise
again and say Max’s part. 83
Said with rising intonation (➚) Said with falling intonation (➘)
Jun: It’s a big place and the rent is cheap.
Really?    You’re kidding.
Max: Really? (➚) That’s great.
Are you serious?    No way.

Jun: There’s no elevator and I’m on the
fifth floor.

Max: No way. (➘)

C Practice the conversation in A with a partner. Then practice again with different expressions.

D Make a new conversation. Talk about two good things and one bad thing. Use the Speaking
Strategy and the ideas below. Then act out your conversation for another pair.

Good things about your apartment Bad things about your apartment
WORD BANK
It has two bedrooms. There’s no AC and it’s 40 degrees.
© National Geographic LearningAC = air
conditioning
It has a nice view. There’s no kitchen.

You can walk to school. Your roommate likes loud music.

My idea: My idea:

138 | UNIT 10

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 66 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 267 ────────

C Practice the conversation in A with a partner.
SPEAKING
Then practice again with different expressions.
10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
In pairs, have students practice the entire
Say the words in the Word Bank with the class.
conversation. After they’ve done it once, ask them
Students should already be familiar with rent, which
to exchange roles and practice again. Then have
they learned in Unit 9. Then point to the stairs in the
them practice a third time using different Speaking
photo and demonstrate the action of going up and
Strategy expressions in the conversation. Have
down. Say, Imagine you live on the top floor in this
one pair do their role play for the class.
apartment building. What are some good things
about that? (Explain and model possible answers:
the view, the natural light, it’s quiet, sometimes
D Make a new conversation. Talk about two good
there’s more space in the top apartment). Ask,
things and one bad thing. Use the Speaking
What are some bad things? (Explain and model a
Strategy and the ideas below. Then act out your
possible answer: You need an elevator or it’s a long
conversation for another pair. 15–20 min
walk up the stairs.) You may also want to share some
In pairs, have students create their own
information about where this apartment building is in
conversation. They can use the one in A to
Singapore. Ask students about the pros and cons of
help them, but it shouldn’t be exactly the same.
living in this area.
Students should practice a few times so that they
are comfortable saying their conversation without
their notes. Then have them do it for another
CULTURE TIP: Bugis Street Shopping District
pair. At the end, the other pair should answer the
Bugis Street in Singapore is a popular area for
two questions in A about the conversation they
shopping, especially for bargain hunters and
listened to: What are the good things about the
souvenir shoppers. Stores, cafes, restaurants, and
apartment? What’s the problem? Circulate, taking
food vendors line the streets. At the heart of it all
note of any trouble spots for students. Then have
is the Bugis Street Market, an enormous covered
one pair do their role play for the class.
marketplace with hundreds of shops and stalls
selling trendy but inexpensive items.
EXTRA! Vacation rental: Your home away
from home 20 min
A Read and listen to the conversation. Then answer
Ask students if they or anyone they know ever uses
the questions. 82 10 min
a homesharing site (like AirBnB) when they travel.
Play the conversation and have students read
Ask students how it works. If you have internet
along. At the end, give students a few minutes to
access, show students an example. Tell students to
answer the two questions with a partner. Check
imagine they are going on vacation. On their own,
answers as a class.
they should think about where they want to go, and
then find a place to stay using a home-sharing site.
Tell students to identify two good things and one
SPEAKING STRATEGY 84 10 min
bad thing about the place.
After students listen to the conversation and
discuss the questions, look at the Speaking
Then have students pair up and talk about their
Strategy expressions with students. Point out that
choice, this time using their real-world information,
we use them to show surprise. Note that No way
the photo(s) of the place, and the Speaking
is best used in an informal setting only. With the
Strategy expressions. Model this once for students
two expressions in the first column, intonation
with an example (shown below).
typically rises. With the two in the second column,
it falls. Say the expressions with the class or play
A: So, are you ready for your vacation?
the audio and have them repeat. Ask them to
underline the expressions for showing surprise in
B: Yeah. I have an apartment in Punta Cana. Look,
the conversation in A. Then do B.
I’ve got some photos on my phone.
© National Geographic Learning
A: Nice. Is it big?
B PRONUNCIATION: Showing surprise Listen
B: No. It only has a bed and a small kitchen and
once to the sentences. Then listen again and say
bathroom, but it’s right on the beach!
Max’s part. 83 10 min
Tell students to listen once to the excerpt from
A: Really? That’s great.
the conversation and to pay attention to how Max
B: It is. Also, it’s . . .
says Really and No way. Then play the audio a
second time. Encourage students to read along
At the end, ask students to talk about some of the
and echo what the speakers are saying.
best places they heard about.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson A | 138a

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 67 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 268 ────────

Then ask the questions, pointing out that we
GRAMMAR
usually reply with a short answer. Ask students
to complete the other short answers. Finally, tell
WARM-UP 10 min
students to look at the second grammar chart in
Write the chart and the sentence below it on the
the appendix. Explain how to ask the question
board:
with How many. Then have students do C in
the appendix. When students have finished,
There’s . . .
check answers. Then have students practice the
stairs
There’s no . . .
conversations with a partner.
a big living room    in the
Alternatively, you may wish to assign the
washing machine apartment.
There are . . .
exercises in the appendix for homework. Then,
two closets
during the next class, put students in pairs and
There are no . . .
have them check their answers.
There is / There’s a big living room in the apartment.
thing place
LANGUAGE TIP: Using any

Have students look at the apartment on the
Notice how any can be used with these questions:
Vocabulary page. Say the sentence about the living
Are there any windows in the bathroom? No, there
room and explain that we use There is and There
aren’t (any).
are to talk about things that exist (or don’t exist) in a
place, and that we shorten There is to There’s.
How many closets are in the apartment? There
aren’t any. = There are no closets.
Next, show that in negative sentences, we add
no. Ask students to make a sentence with There’s
no . . . using the picture on page 136 and the words
B Work with a partner. Student A: Turn to page 215.
in the chart. Remind students that we use There
Read the directions there. Student B: Your partner
is to talk about one thing. Write the answer on the
is looking for student housing. Follow these steps.
board and say it with the class (There’s no washing
15 min
machine . . .).
Put students in pairs. Student A should read
about the apartment on page 215. Student B
Finally, explain that we use There are / There are
should read about the one on page 139. Once
no . . . to talk about two or more things. Have
they’ve done this, they should do the following:
students make sentences based on the picture and
using the words in the chart. Write and say them
1. Student B tells Student A about his or her
with the class (There are two closets . . . / There are
place for rent. Student A takes notes.
no stairs . . .).
2. When Student B is done, Student A asks
about the apartment’s extras. Student B
A Read the Unit 10, Lesson A Grammar Reference
should look at the information on the right. A
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
check [✓] means the apartment has that thing.
the exercises below. 30 min
An [✗] means it doesn’t. Model this for the
Look at the first chart in the Grammar Reference
class. Student A asks: Is there a refrigerator
and review it with the class. Then have students
in the apartment? Because there is a check,
do A and B in the appendix. (Go over any new
Student B should say, Yes, there is . . . a small
vocabulary first.) Have students check their
one. Student A should take notes.
answers with a partner by reading the sentences
aloud. Check answers as a class.
As students talk about the apartments,
encourage them to use the expressions for
Then write these statements on the board:
showing surprise that they learned. For example,
There’s no elevator? You’re kidding!
1. There is an elevator in the building.
© National Geographic Learning
2. There are windows in the bathroom.
C Change roles. 15 min
Then write these questions and short answers.
Student A now tells Student B about his or her
place for rent and answers questions.
1. Is there an elevator in the building?
Yes, there is. / No, there _______.
D Look at the apartments in B and C. Do you want
2. Are there windows in the bathroom?
to live there? Why or why not? 10 min
Yes, there _______. / No, there _______.
Have students review their notes and explain
Get students to notice what is different in the
their answers to the questions. Poll the class to
questions. (The first two words change place.)
see which place is more popular.

139a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 68 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 269 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 10, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
exercises. Then do the exercises below.

THERE IS / THERE ARE
an
Singular There is / There’s elevator
no
in the building.
(two)
Plural There are elevators
no

Questions Short Answers
Yes, there is.
Is there an elevator
No, there isn’t.
in the building?
Yes, there are.
Are there (any) elevators
No, there aren’t.
There’s one.
How many elevators are in the building?
There are two.

B Work with a partner. Student A: Turn to page 215. Read the directions there.
Is there a
Student B: Your partner is looking for student housing. Follow these steps:
refrigerator?

1. Tell your partner about the apartment below.
Yes, there . . .
2. Answer your partner’s questions about the apartment’s “extras.” Use
It’s . . .
there is / there are.

About the apartment for rent    Extras (✓ = yes ✗ = no)
WORD BANK
It’s on the fifth floor. There’s one large ✓ refrigerator (small)
microwave (oven)
refrigerator
room. There’s no kitchen, but there    ✓ closets (two)
window
is a microwave to cook simple food.    ✓ laundry room (on the ground floor)
There’s also a small bathroom.    ✗ elevator (stairs only)

C Change roles.
1. Listen to your partner tell you about an apartment. Take notes below.
2. Ask your partner questions to learn about the apartment’s extras.
Put a ✓ or an ✗.

About the apartment    Extras (✓ = yes ✗ = no)
first floor. There’s    ✓
It’s on the . . .    washing machine in the
one big room with a bed, a desk, and a
apartment?
chair. There’s also a small kitchen and a    ✓
windows in the apartment?
bathroom.    ✗
closets?
✗
bathtub in the bathroom?

© National Geographic Learning
D Look at the apartments in B and C. Do you want to live there? Why or why not?

Lesson A | 139

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 69 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 270 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Read about the bedroom in the photo. As you read, point to things.

This is my bedroom. Next to the bed (on the right), there’s a tall lamp. Near the lamp, there’s
a big window. Across from the bed (on the left), there’s a desk and chair. There’s a small
lamp on the desk. Above my bed is my bike. And in front of my bed, there’s a rug.

B Talk about your room with a partner.
WORD BANK
Student A: Think about your bedroom. On a piece of paper, draw your
lamp
bedroom door and your bed. Then give the paper to your partner. What
rug
other things are in your room? Where are they? Tell your partner.

Student B: Listen and draw your partner’s bedroom.

C Student A: Check your partner’s drawing. Does it look like your room?

D Switch roles and do B and C again. Are your rooms similar or different?
© National Geographic Learning
10A GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Identify objects and rooms in a home
2. Mostly, yes.
Show surprise
3. Not yet.

140 | UNIT 10

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 70 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 271 ────────

Then put students in pairs. Explain that
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
Student A should draw only the basic outline of
their room, as well as the door and bed. (Note:
WARM-UP 5 min
If preferred, students can talk about another
Ask students to cover the sentences in A and look
room, such as the living room.) Student B should
at the photo. Ask, What room is this? (a bedroom)
then take the paper and draw everything else by
Then put students in pairs and ask, What things
listening to A’s directions. As pairs work, circulate
are in the room? Tell students they have a minute
helping with vocabulary as needed. Set a time
to write down as many things as they can with their
limit (e.g., five minutes) for the drawing.
partner without looking back in the lesson to find
vocabulary they need. At the end, identify the items
in the photo using there is / there are.
C Student A: Check your partner’s drawing. Does it
look like your room? 5 min
Tell Student A to look at Student B’s drawing. Is it
A Read about the bedroom in the photo. As you
correct? If not, Student A can give directions for
read, point to things. 15 min
changes.
Read the sentences aloud, pointing to things
in the photo so that students understand the
D Switch roles and do B and C again. Are your
meaning of each word or phrase in bold. For
rooms similar or different? 10 min
reinforcement, ask the class questions using the
words in bold (e.g., Who’s sitting next to (name
Have students switch roles. This time, Student B
of a student) on the left?). Then have students
describes a room to Student A.
work in pairs. One can read the sentences aloud
After checking the second drawing, pairs should
while the other points to things in the photo, and
talk about similarities and differences in their
then they can switch roles.
rooms. Finish with a class discussion. Ask,
Whose rooms are similar? Whose are different?
LANGUAGE TIP: next to and near
Who has something interesting or unusual in
their room?
Remind students that they learned the word close
in Unit 9. The word near means the same thing.
Diagnostics
Something that is next to you is very close.
Check students’ competencies as follows:
• Can they talk about rooms in a home?
EXPANSION: Cloze exercise 10 min
• Are they able to use there is / there are to identify
Tell students to cover the sentences in A. Then
objects in rooms?
project or write the sentences with the words in
• Can they use there is / there are to ask
bold deleted (but listed separately on the board).
questions?
Tell students to complete the sentences with them.
Have partners check answers by taking turns
reading each sentence aloud.
10A
GOALS
Review students’ self-assessment in the
B Talk about your room with a partner. 15 min
goals box. Point out to students where in the
To model this exercise, describe a room aloud
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
to the class and have students draw it. Begin
they can review those exercises to improve
by telling them which room it is. Then, on the
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
board, draw two or three things in the room
Identify objects and rooms in a home:
and describe the rest of it to students, using
Warm-Up video, page 134; Vocabulary,
sentences similar to those in A. When you’re
page 136, A–E; Listening, page 137, C;
done, invite students to ask questions to clarify
Speaking, page 138, D; Grammar, page
where something is in the room. Finally, reveal
139, A–D; Active English, page 140, A–D
the floor plan and have students compare it to
© National Geographic LearningShow surprise: Speaking, page 138, A–D
their drawings. Whose is the most accurate?

Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson A | 140a

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 71 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 272 ────────

B Look at the photo. Answer the questions with a
10B HOME DESIGN
partner. 15 min
First, say the adjectives in the Word Bank with
VOCABULARY
students. As you say each word, act out the
feeling (e.g., smile for happy; pretend to cry for
WARM-UP 5–10 min
sad; bite your nails for nervous; sit in a relaxed
Have students talk about the things they see in
way in a chair for relaxed). Remind students that
the photo with a partner. Elicit the things they see.
they learned the word relaxing in Unit 3. We use
Then introduce other vocabulary in the photo, which
that word to talk about things—e.g., Classical
students can use later in this lesson. Say the extra
music is very relaxing. To talk about ourselves,
words below with the class and see if students can
we say relaxed—e.g., I’m very relaxed right now,
identify them in the photo. Also show how we use
very calm.
prepositions with these words: The painting is on
the wall. There are books on the shelf. What’s in the
Then ask, Which words have a positive
cabinet?
meaning? (happy, relaxed) Which words don’t?
(nervous, sad, unhappy, uncomfortable) Then
act out the feelings (without saying them) and
MORE WORDS: Things in a room
see if students can call out the words.
cabinet    shelf (plural: shelves)
Now read the three questions aloud for students.
cushion    wall
Make sure they understand how to answer
painting
question 2. (Direct them to the model.) Then
have students work in pairs to discuss the three
questions. At the end, poll the class on how
A Say the colors with your teacher. Then ask a
many people like and don’t like the room. Ask a
partner: What is your favorite color? 10–15 min
few people to explain their reasons why.
Say the colors aloud with students a few times.
Then explain that we can use bright to say that
LANGUAGE TIP: The prefix una color is very strong—bright yellow, bright
Point out to students that un- at the start of
green. We can also talk about a color being
adjectives can mean not: un + happy = not happy;
light (meaning pale): light blue, light green.
un + comfortable = not comfortable. Give students
The opposite is dark: dark blue, dark green.
some other examples using adjectives they’ve
For practice, hold up or point to items that are
learned in this book: unfriendly, unhealthy. Say the
different colors and have students call out the
words with the class.
color of each. Then have students do this once
with a partner. They can talk about the colors of
things they’re wearing or have with them. Also
C Find another photo of a room in a house. Answer
introduce the word colorful in the photo caption.
the questions in B about it with a partner.
Explain that when something has a lot of color,
15–20 min
we use this word. Finally, have students tell a
Ask students to find another photo of a room—it
partner their favorite color.
can be one in this unit or another they find online.
Have them answer the questions in B about
EXTRA! /l/ and /r/ sounds 10–15 min
it, and then share their ideas with a partner.
Depending on your learners (e.g., Chinese,
Circulate, helping students with language as
Japanese, Korean), you may want to spend a little
needed. At the end, have a few students present
extra time practicing with the /l/ and /r/ sounds in
their rooms. Poll the class on how many people
words like light / right, led / red, blue / brew. Also,
like and don’t like each room. Ask a few people
say the /r/ in these consonant combinations: br
to explain their reasons.
(bright, brown) and gr (green, gray).

D Write the name of a color that makes you feel . . .
© National Geographic Learning
10 min
EXTRA! Color in my culture 10 min
Tell students to cover the colors in A and
Have students answer the questions below about
complete the four sentences. Can they
their countries. For more practice, have students go
remember the words? Then tell them to share
online to find out about another culture and report
their answers with a partner. At the end, ask
back to a partner or small group.
each pair if any of their answers were the same,
or use a poll to query the class. Which color(s)
In your country or culture, are certain colors . . .
are the most common for each adjective?
• used for any holidays? Which ones?
• good or bad luck?

141a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 72 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 273 ────────

10B
HOME DESIGN

VOCABULARY

A Say the colors with your teacher. Then ask a partner: What is your favorite color?

black dark blue brown green pink red white

blue light blue gray orange purple bright yellow

B Look at the photo. Answer the questions with a partner.
WORD BANK
1. What things are in the room? What colors are they?
Feelings
happy unhappy, sad
2. When you look at the room, how do you feel?
relaxed nervous, uncomfortable
Complete this sentence with a word from the Word Bank.

This room makes me feel .

3. Do you like the room? Why or why not?

The colors are very bright. They make me
feel happy. I like the room.

C Find another photo of a room in a house. Answer the questions in B about it with a partner.

D Write the name of a color that makes you feel . . .
1. relaxed    3. happy
2. uncomfortable    4. sad

© National Geographic Learning

This is a very colorful living room.
Lesson B | 141

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 73 22/05/21 6:18 PM

──────── Page 274 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5 min
Elicit from students the names
For example, use light colors (light blue, green,
of rooms in a house and the
or gray) in a bedroom or living area. They help
THE POWER OF
colors of those rooms in their own
us feel relaxed.
homes. Take a poll of the most
Other colors—like red, orange, and yellow—are
common colors. Ask, What are
different. They make us feel alert3 and sometimes
your favorite colors for a house?
hungry, studies show. For this reason, they can
be good to use in a dining area or a kitchen.
COLOR
A room with some red, orange, or yellow can
A Look at the photo and tell a
What are the best colors for
also feel happy, so these colors can be good in
partner: 5–10 min
a living area. But these colors are very strong,4
rooms in your home?
Give students a couple
We see color everywhere. It makes our world
of minutes to discuss the
beautiful, but it can also affect1 our feelings and
questions. Then go over
behavior.2 For this reason, it is important to use
students’ answers to question 1.
the right colors in different rooms in a home.
Poll the class on question 2.

B Make predictions. Read the title
of the article and the question
below it. Then, with a partner,
guess which colors (a–d) are
best for each room (1–5) and
match them. One color (or set
of colors) is extra. 10 min
Elicit ideas on what the
reading is about. Have
students look at the rooms
individually and predict which
colors are best for each one.
Encourage them to think about
what people do in each room,
and the effect that colors might
have on people. Give students
a few minutes to think about
their answers. Then have
them share their ideas with a
partner. Ask them to explain
the reasons for their choices.

C Check predictions. Read the
142 | UNIT 10
passage. Check your answers
in B. 10 min
Have students read the article
Make and check predictions.
to see if they were correct.
to check their ideas. When
Making predictions before
If not, we note what was
they’re done, tell them to look
we read prepares us to
different.
up. When you check answers
understand a text and think
with the class, ask students
© National Geographic Learning
critically about it when
if their predictions mostly
D Scan for information.
we read. When we make
matched those in the article
Complete the chart with the
predictions, we look first at
or not. If several students get
correct colors and feelings.
the photos and the title. We
certain predictions wrong, tell
10 min
also use our own personal
them not to worry. Go over the
Tell students to read the
experience to help us guess
reasons why they chose the
article quickly to find either
what we are going to learn in
answers they did in B and how
the correct color or feeling. Do
the passage. Then, when we
their answers compared with
the first one as an example.
read, we check our predictions
the information in the article.

142 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 74 22/05/21 6:19 PM

──────── Page 275 ────────

Show students how you quickly
locate the phrase light blue,
green, or gray in the second
paragraph, and then search
and it’s best to only use a little of them.
A Look at the photo and tell a partner:
for the related “feeling word”
People can feel nervous in rooms with too
1. What things are in the room?
(which in this case is relaxed).
many dark or bright colors.
2. In your opinion, is this room comfortable or
Students should write this in
not? Do you like it?
Other colors help us work or study.
the chart.
Many people think white walls and bright
B Make predictions. Read the title of the article
lights are best for this. But people are
Then tell students to scan
and the question below it. Then, with a partner,
often uncomfortable in this kind of room.
to complete items 2–6. Time
guess which colors (a–d) are best for each
Sometimes in a bright white room, it’s too
this step so that students are
room (1–5) and match them. One color (or set
hard to think. Instead, use white with another
of colors) is extra.
encouraged to read quickly.
color, especially light blue. In a home office or
When time is up, check
Good colors for
a room for studying, light blue and white can
the room
Room
answers with the class.
help people relax and think better. 85
a. red, orange, or
1. bedroom
1If something affects you, it changes you in some way.
yellow
Scan for information. When
2Your behavior is the way you act.
2. living room
3If you are alert, you feel very awake and ready
b. white only
we scan, we read fast to find
3. dining room
to do things.
4A strong color is bright or intense.
c. light blue, light green,
specific information. Before we
4. kitchen
or light gray
read, we think about the key
5. home office /
d. white and light blue
study room
words we’re looking for. Then
we move our eyes quickly over
C Check predictions. Read the passage. Check
the text, and when we find the
your answers in B.
information we need, we stop
and read closely.
D Scan for information. Complete the chart with
the correct colors and feelings.

Room color(s) Feeling(s)
E Answer the questions with a
light blue, light
relaxed
1.
partner. Use ideas from the
green, or light gray
reading. 15–20 min
alert, sometimes
red,
2.
hungry
3. , and
orange, yellow
Before students answer the
Dark red, especially
happy
when used with brown
two questions, have them
lots of dark or bright
nervous
or black, can make a
4.
summarize what they learned
colors
room feel warm and
5. walls
comfortable.    white
from the article. Put students
bright
and    uncomfortable
in small groups and assign
lights
each person a different room
blue
6. light    relaxed and ready
white
in B. Tell students to use their
and    to study
answers in B and D to explain
E Answer the questions with a partner. Use ideas
in their own words what colors
from the reading.
(according to the article)
1. Look at the photo. Is this room good for
studying? relaxing? eating? Why? Why not?
are best for their room and
2. Talk about a room in your house. What
why. Give students a couple
colors are in the room? Is the room good for
of minutes to prepare their
studying? relaxing? eating? Why? Why not?
sentences. Then the group
can listen and make sure
Lesson B | 143
the speaker’s information is
correct. Finally, have students
discuss the two questions
in E. Remind students to reply
a bedroom on a spaceship) with
based on information they read
relaxing background sounds
in the article. Call on different
(e.g., music, rain falling, an
pairs to share their answers
engine humming). Do a search for
© National Geographic Learning
with the class.
an ambience room video. Show
it to the class and have them talk
about the things in the room, the
EXTRA! Relaxing room
colors they see, the sounds they
videos 5–10 min
hear, and how the video makes
Animated ambience videos are
them feel. Have them compare
very popular, especially with
the video with the photo in the
people who want to relax. One
reading. Then have students find
type of ambience video combines
one of their own videos to share
tranquil indoor scenes (a cozy
with a partner.
kitchen, a candlelit living room,

Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson B | 143

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 75 22/05/21 6:19 PM

──────── Page 276 ────────

LISTENING

A Look at the photo. In your opinion, what are some good and bad things
WORD BANK
about living in a very small room or home? Tell a partner.
furniture = all the things
in a room (a bed, desk,
B Make and check predictions. Read 1–3 below. With a partner, try to
chair, etc.)
guess the answers. Then listen and write a word in each blank. 86
space = a place to put
something
The problems with a small room
dark
1. Sometimes, a small room is very .
space    Everything
2. There’s no for all your things. is
everywhere.

3. The furniture is too big. Then the room feels crowded and
uncomfortable
.

C How can you fix the problems in B? Look at the photo again and guess the answers to 1–3. Then
listen. Choose the answer(s) for each problem. 87

How to fix* each problem
a b, c c
1. Use in the room.    2. Put things .    3. Use in a small room.
a. white or light gray    a. in a closet    a. a small desk
b. bright lights    b. on shelves    b. only one piece of furniture
c. dark colors    c. on wall hooks    c. a folding table
*When you fix something, you make it better.

D Work with a partner. Choose a problem in B. Explain: how does the idea in C fix the problem?

E Discuss the questions with a partner.
1. Can you think of other ideas to add to C? 2. Do you do any of these things?

Tiny homes are very small.
Many are only about 200 square
feet (18.5 square meters).

© National Geographic Learning

144 | UNIT 10

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 76 22/05/21 6:19 PM

──────── Page 277 ────────

Have students try to guess the answers in 1–3.
LISTENING
Then play the audio and tell them to check their
ideas. Remind students that they only need to
WARM-UP 5 min
listen for the correct answers in 1–3. In one case,
Have students look at the photo and draw their
there are two correct answers. For support, stop
attention to the words in the Word Bank. Ask, Is
the audio after each problem (1, 2, or 3) is talked
there a lot of furniture in this home? Is there a lot of
about. Play the audio again as needed. Then
space?
check answers with the class.

Listen for details. In B and C, students are
A Look at the photo. In your opinion, what are some
listening for details. Remind them that they do
good and bad things about living in a very small
not need to understand everything that’s said;
room or home? Tell a partner. 5–10 min
they only need to pay close attention for the
Have students look at the photo and answer the
information they need.
question. Then take ideas from the class and put
them on the board.
D Work with a partner. Choose a problem in B.
Explain: how does the idea in C fix the problem?
B Make and check predictions. Read 1–3 below.
10–15 min
With a partner, try to guess the answers.
To help students do this exercise, have them
Then listen and write a word in each blank.
organize their answers from B and C as shown
86 10 min
below. Then play the audio in C again and have
Tell students the first part of the listening is
students make some notes to complete “How
about problems with living in a small room. Have
this helps.” Model the first one for the class:
students read items 1–3 and see if they can
1. The problem: Sometimes a small room is very
predict any of the missing words with a partner.
dark. (The answer in B)
(You may have already written some of their
ideas on the board in A.) Then play the audio
How to fix it: Use white or light gray in the
and tell students to check their ideas. Remind
room. (The answer in C)
them that they only need to listen for the correct
How this helps: The room feels more open and
answers in 1–3. For support, stop the audio after
bright. (Students hear this in the audio.)
each problem (1, 2, or 3) is talked about. Play
the audio again as needed. Then check answers
Then have students do the same for numbers
with the class.
two and three.

Make and check predictions. Making
2. The problem: The answer in B
predictions before listening prepares students
How to fix it: The answer in C
to understand more of what they will hear.
Before they listen, students can use their own
How this helps: (Answer: There is space to sit
experience to help them guess what they are
and work.)
going to hear. Students can also preview the
3. The problem: The answer in B
sentences to see if they can guess any of the
answers. Then, when they listen, students
How to fix it: The answer in C
can check their predictions to see if they were
How this helps: (Answer: You put the table in
correct. If not, they should note what was
the closet. Then there is space.)
different.
Then have students use their notes to explain to a
partner why each idea in C fixes a problem in B.
C Listen for details. How can you fix the problems
in B? Look at the photo again and guess
E Discuss the questions with a partner. 5 min
the answers to 1–3. Then listen. Choose the
Have students discuss the questions with a
answer(s) for each problem. 87 10 min
partner. For the first question, take suggestions
Read the question in the direction line (How
© National Geographic Learningfrom the class and put them on the board. Later,
can you fix the problems in B?) and draw
in Active English, students may be able to use
students’ attention to the definition of the word
some of their ideas.
fix. Tell students they will hear three ideas in the
listening. Before listening, go over the answer
choices (a, b, c) in 1–3. Review the meaning of
shelves. Point out the things hanging from hooks
above the sink in the kitchen area. Illustrate the
meaning of folding by acting it out or pointing to
the folding chair in the photo.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson B | 144a

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 77 22/05/21 6:19 PM

──────── Page 278 ────────

Then have students work in pairs. Ask them
GRAMMAR
to write two sentences about the homes in the
photo using too and very. Students can use the
WARM-UP 5 min
adjectives in the box or think of their own ideas.
To illustrate the difference between very and too,
Do one with the class to model the exercise—
look again at the photo on the Lesson B Vocabulary
e.g., This is a very relaxing neighborhood. One
page. Point to the bookshelf near the window.
houseboat is too small to live on.
Write the following sentences on the board. For the
second one, pretend to struggle to reach something
When they’re done, have students turn to
on a high shelf.
page 216 and make sentences with very and
too about the photos there.
• The shelf is very high, but I can get the book.
• The shelf is too high. I can’t get the book.
CULTURE TIP: Amsterdam’s canals
Then look again at the photo of the tiny home on the
Amsterdam is the capital of the Netherlands. (The
bottom of page 144. Write on the board:
country is sometimes informally called Holland.)
The city is a collection of about 90 islands, linked
The house is very small, but I like it.
together by over one thousand bridges. Almost
The house is too small for four people. Only two
60 miles (about 100 kilometers) of manmade canals
people can live there.
run through the city. These canals were originally
built so goods could be moved into and out of
Guide students to see that in these sentences, very
the city on boats. Today, the canals are still used,
and too come before adjectives (words like high,
mainly as a form of public and tourist transportation.
small, big) and make them stronger.
Over two thousand houseboats line Amsterdam’s
waterways. In the mid-20th century, many
A Read the Unit 10, Lesson B Grammar Reference
houseboats were an inexpensive form of housing.
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
Today, however, many cost hundreds of thousands
the exercises below. 20 min
of dollars or more, especially those in the city
center. Some are used as private homes; others are
Have students look at the chart in the Grammar
available as vacation rentals.
Reference. Say the sentences with them and
review the rules with very and too. Then have
students do A in the appendix. When they have
C Join another pair. Give them your sentences from
finished, have them check their answers with a
B. Follow the steps. 10 min
partner. Check answers as a class.
Have each pair join another and swap
For B in the appendix, tell students to take
sentences. Have students read and correct
turns reading their sentences aloud. Their
each other’s work. Circulate, helping groups
partner should make sure each sentence
as needed. Then have students discuss the
is grammatically correct. At the end, have
sentences the other pair wrote. Do they agree
volunteers share their answers with the class.
with their sentences or not? Finally, have each
pair share one of their sentences with the class.
Alternatively, you may wish to assign the
Make corrections as needed.
exercises in the appendix for homework. Then,
during the next class, put students in pairs and
have them check their answers.
D Answer the questions with the group. 10 min
Give students a few minutes to discuss the two
LANGUAGE TIP: very and too + adverb
questions with their group. Circulate, noting
any areas where students struggle. Write any
Though it doesn’t come up in this grammar lesson,
incorrect sentences that you heard on the board,
very and too can also be used with adverbs: He
and have students correct as many as they can.
talks too fast. I don’t understand him. / I’m doing
At the end, ask the class for corrections and
very well in my English class.
© National Geographic Learningmake the necessary changes.
B Work with a partner. Follow these steps.
10–15 min

Have students look at the photo and read the
caption. Ask, What city is this? What kind of
houses do you see? You may also want to give
students some background information on
Amsterdam’s canals (see Culture Tip). Review
the grammar chart in A.

145a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 78 22/05/21 6:19 PM

──────── Page 279 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 10, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete
the exercises. Then do the exercises below.

VERY AND TOO
This room is very dark.
He has a very small apartment.
The desk is too big for the room.
It is too hard to study in a bright room.
big    messy
bright    noisy
B Work with a partner. Follow these steps.
colorful    old
1. Write two sentences about the homes in the photo.
(un)comfortable relaxing
Use too and very, and words from the box.
crowded    small
2. Turn to page 216. Look at the photos there. Repeat step 1.
dark    your idea:

Option 1

Houseboats in Amsterdam, Holland, are cool but they
aren’t cheap. Also, many are close to the street—and
each other—so there isn’t a lot of privacy.

C Join another pair. Give them your sentences from B. Follow the steps.
1. Read your classmates’ sentences. Are any incorrect? If yes, correct them.
© National Geographic Learning
2. Do you agree with your classmates’ sentences? Tell them.

D Answer the questions with the group.
1. Do you like any of the places in B? Why or why not?
2. Think about your home or a family member’s. What are good and bad
things about it? Use too and very to explain.

Lesson B | 145

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 79 22/05/21 6:19 PM

──────── Page 280 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Look at the photo. With a partner, talk about the problems in this room.    The walls are too . . .
How can you fix these problems? On a piece of paper, list and then draw    Let’s . . .
your ideas.

B Work with another pair. Explain your ideas to them. When you listen, take notes.
What do you like about their ideas?

C Repeat B with three other pairs. At the end, review your notes. Then ask a partner:
Whose ideas are the best? Why?

D WRITING Read about one person’s home. Then write about your own.

I live with my family in an apartment in Santiago. We live on the sixth floor.
There are two bedrooms in the apartment. I share one with my sister. In our
room, there are two beds, a desk, a bookshelf, and a closet. It’s too small for all
our clothes! The apartment also has a living room, a dining area, a kitchen, and
a very big balcony with lots of plants. I like our apartment a lot!

© National Geographic Learning
E Share your writing with a partner. Are your homes similar or different? Give examples.

10B GOALS Now I can . . .
1. Yes, I can.
Describe rooms in a house
2. Mostly, yes.
Talk about ways to improve a room or house
3. Not yet.

146 | UNIT 10

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 80 22/05/21 6:19 PM

──────── Page 281 ────────

D WRITING Read about one person’s home. Then
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
write about your own. 15–20 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Have students read the description silently.
When they are done, ask several questions to
Introduce the idea of home decorating shows
check understanding; for example, What kind
on TV. Are students familiar with them? If not,
of home does the person live in? What floor is
explain that on these shows, experts show how to
it on? How many bedrooms are there? Is it a
decorate living spaces to make them look new and
comfortable home? Then tell students they are
interesting.
going to write about their home. They can use the
description they just read as a model. Brainstorm
A Look at the photo. With a partner, talk about the
useful vocabulary with students (for example,
problems in this room. How can you fix these
terms specific to houses and apartments in their
problems? On a piece of paper, list and then draw
country) and write it on the board.
your ideas. 15 min
Have students work in pairs. First, tell them to
E Share your writing with a partner. Are your homes
talk about the problems with the room in the
similar or different? Give examples. 15 min
photo. Then, tell them to draw a simple floor plan
Have students exchange their writing with a
of a new and improved room. Students should
partner. As they read, tell students to circle any
think about what colors and items would be in
mistakes they notice in their partner’s work,
the room. Tell them to use the information they
though they don’t need to correct anything.
learned from the reading and listening as well
When they’re done, have students ask any
as their own ideas. In their drawing, they should
questions they have about their partner’s work.
label the things and indicate the colors they
Then have them talk about how their homes are
would use.
similar and different. Call on a few students to
share their answers.
B Work with another pair. Explain your ideas to
them. When you listen, take notes. What do you
TEACHING TIP: Peer editing
like about their ideas? 10 min
Even at this level, students can review each other’s
Have two pairs get together to talk about their
work, especially if you assign them specific things
ideas. Each pair should take turns explaining
to pay attention to. For instance, in this exercise,
their floor plan. The other pair should comment
you can tell students to look for correct spelling
on the things they like most about the other’s
and punctuation, as well as the correct use of the
ideas. They can also ask questions. Time each
unit target grammar (there is / there are, too and
pair so that they speak for no more than five
very). When students read something that they don’t
minutes.
understand or think is incorrect, tell them to circle it.
Later, they can point these things out to their partner
C Repeat B with three other pairs. At the end,
and say, I’m not sure about this.
review your notes. Then ask a partner: Whose
ideas are the best? Why? 20–25 min
Diagnostics
Have students repeat B with three other pairs. At
Check students’ competencies as follows:
the end, have students tell a partner about the
• Can they describe rooms using colors and other
best ideas they saw. Then take a class vote on
adjectives?
the best floor plan(s) in the class.
• Can they use too and very to modify adjectives?

TEACHING OPTION
10B
GOALS
In B and C, instead of having one pair talk to
Review students’ self-assessment in the
another, do this: When all pairs are done creating
goals box. Point out to students where in the
their floor plans in A, have students do a gallery
© National Geographic Learning
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
walk, where each pair hangs their poster on the
they can review those exercises to improve
wall. One student from each pair can stay by the
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
poster to explain it and answer questions; the
other person can walk around and look at the other
Describe rooms in a house: Vocabulary,
posters. Have students take notes on the things
page 141, B and C; Reading, page 143, A–E;
they see. After a certain amount of time, students
Listening, page 144, A and B; Grammar, page
can change roles. At the end, have students get
145, A–D; Active English, page 146, A and D
back together with their partner and talk about the
Talk about ways to improve a room or house:
best ideas they saw. Then take a class vote on the
Listening, page 144, C–E; Active English,
best floor plan(s) in the class.
page 146, A–C

Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson B | 146a

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 81 22/05/21 6:19 PM

──────── Page 282 ────────

Then play the first part of the video only (the
GLOBAL VOICES
home tour). Tell students to watch and circle the
things in their notebook that they see and hear
WARM-UP 5 min
Culhane talk about. Pause as he finishes talking
Write the environment on the board. Define it or
about each room so students can write their
have students look it up in their dictionaries. (The
answers. Check answers with the class.
environment is the natural world and everything in it:
people, plants, animals, the air, the water, etc.)
C Read the sentences. Then watch the video again.
Then explain that when something is good for the
Circle T for true or F for false. Correct the false
environment—like when we save water—people say
statements. 15 min
it is “green.” (Show a photo of this if possible.) Then
Pre-teach the word appliance and the extra
ask students to give you an example of something
words below. Tell students to read items 1–5 and
that is bad for the environment (e.g., plastic, using
see if they can remember anything Culhane said.
too much electricity or water). Write these ideas on
Then play the first part of the video again and
the board.
have students circle their answers.

ABOUT THE VIDEO
EXTRA VIDEO VOCABULARY
In the video, National Geographic Explorer T.H.
If something is energy efficient, it saves
Culhane takes people on a tour of his off-grid house
energy.
and gives viewers tips for saving energy and water
at home.
When something is recycled, it is used, not
new.
ABOUT THE SPEAKER
T.H. Culhane is a National Geographic Explorer
D How can you save energy and water at home?
and a Professor of Global Sustainability at the
Read tips 1–6 and guess. Write a word in each
University of South Florida in the US. He is also the
blank. 15 min
cofounder of Solar CITIES Inc., an organization
Tell students that in the second part of the video,
that trains communities around the world to build
Culhane gives tips (ideas) for saving energy
their own homes, grow their own food, and utilize
and water at home. Before students watch, have
biodigesters—tools that transform household
them read items 1–6 and guess the answers
organic waste into renewable energy.
with a partner. Pre-teach the meaning of turn off,
unplug, and brush your teeth by acting them out.
A Read the information below. Look up the underlined
words. Answer the questions. 5–10 min
E Watch the video and check your answers in D.
Tell students to look at the photo, read the
Do you do any of these things at home? Explain.
sentences in the box and the Word Bank, and
10 min
look up the word energy. Then have students
Play the second part of the video only (the tips).
answer the two questions with a partner. Go over
Have students watch and check their ideas.
these with the class.
Pause after each tip. Play this part again as
needed. Then check answers with the class.
B With a partner, guess the answers to 1–3 below.
Write ideas in your notebook. Then watch the
Have students answer the question with a
video and check your answers. 15 min
partner. Also ask, Do you do anything else at
home to be “green”? What do you think of T.H.
Tell the class that we see T.H. Culhane’s house in
Culhane’s home? Take ideas from the class.
the video. Ask students to think about the things
they might see in the kitchen, the living room,
and the bedrooms. Tell them to write ideas in
their notebook. Take ideas from the class and
write them on the board. Before watching, also
© National Geographic Learning
introduce the extra words below.

EXTRA VIDEO VOCABULARY
couch another word for sofa
LED lights lightbulbs that save energy
stove a machine used for cooking
garden (or yard) a place near a house where
people grow plants

147a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 82 22/05/21 6:19 PM

──────── Page 283 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A Read the information below. Look up the underlined words. Answer the questions.
Many homes use a lot of energy and water.
1. What is the problem with many homes?
This is bad for the environment.
WORD BANK
2. What does T.H. Culhane do?
He teaches people to save energy and water.
When you save
Many homes use a lot of energy and water. This is bad for the environment.
energy or water,
you use less of
National Geographic Explorer T.H. Culhane teaches people to save energy
these things.
and water. In the video, we visit his tiny home.

B With a partner, guess the answers to 1–3 below. Write ideas in your notebook.
Then watch the video and check your answers.
In the kitchen, there’s a
dishwasher . . .
In Culhane’s home, what things are in . . .

1. the kitchen? 2. the living room? 3. the bedrooms?
dishwasher, microwave, refrigerator,
couch and TV computers, LED lights
stove, washing machine
C Read the sentences. Then watch the video again. Circle T for true or F for false.
Correct the false statements.

1. The kitchen appliances save energy. T F
It’s used.
2. Most furniture in the home is new. T F
3. The lights use very little energy. T F
WORD BANK
4. They grow a lot of their own food. T F
Home appliances
are things like a
They also use a dryer sometimes.
5. They only dry clothes outside. T F
refrigerator and
microwave.
D How can you save energy and water at home? Read tips 1–6 and guess.
Write a word in each blank.
lights
1. Turn off the when you leave a room.
TV
2. Unplug your and microwave.
lights
3. Use only LED .
water
4. Turn off the when you brush your teeth.
garden
5. Start a and grow some food.
new
6. Don’t buy everything .
Buy some used furniture, too.

E Watch the video and check your answers in D.
Do you do any of these things at home? Explain.

© National Geographic Learning

T.H. Culhane uses solar panels
to power his home. He does
other things to save energy, too.

Lesson B | 147

WLTB_INT_U10_ptg01.indd 83 22/05/21 6:19 PM

──────── Page 284 ────────

UNIT 11

ABOUT THE PHOTO    Fashion bloggers
The photo was taken by Filipina    gather for a boat
trip in Istanbul.
photographer and National
Geographic Explorer, Hannah
Reyes Morales. She took this
photo at the Modest Fashion
Week in Istanbul, Turkey, where
fashion bloggers took a boat
trip in between seeing different
clothes at the event.

INTRODUCE THE THEME
This unit presents students with the
language they need to talk about
clothes and fashion. By the end,
they will be able to ask for and give
prices and say what they want.

In Lesson A, students learn
clothing and accessories
vocabulary, how to ask for and
give prices, and how to talk about
desires and necessities.

In Lesson B, students learn how
to describe clothing. They read
about dress codes and what to
wear at work. They also describe
what they are wearing and learn
to use count and noncount nouns.

WARM-UP 5 min
With books closed, write the
word Clothing on the board. Put
students in small groups and tell
them they have two minutes to
brainstorm as many clothes as
possible. Afterwards, find out
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
/ Identify clothing items    / Describe clothing
which group has the most ideas
/ Ask for and give prices of things    / Talk about personal style
and let them write the list on the
board. If you think your students
won’t know many words, elicit
any that the whole class knows
question, students can guess why
other special events. Paris,
and write them on the board. If
the women are taking a boat trip
London, and Milan also have
necessary, pre-teach or clarify a
and taking selfies. Answers might
similar semi-annual events;
few words by pointing at clothing
include for fun, or to share photos
together, these four cities are
that students are wearing.
on social media.
sometimes known as the “Big
© National Geographic Learning
Four” of fashion. During this week,
Look at the photo. Answer the
the streets are filled with models
questions. 5 min
WARM-UP VIDEO
and ordinary people trying out the
About the video
Discuss as a class the answers to
latest fashion trends.
the questions. When answering
This video takes place during
the first question about colors,
New York Fashion Week. Fashion
Warm-Up 3 min
you could suggest students use
Week happens twice a year
Tell students they are going to
words like light / dark so they can
in New York (in February and
watch a video set in New York.
describe differences in the colors
September). Designers, models,
Ask them to tell you what they
in the photo; e.g., light brown /
and fashion buyers and lovers
know about New York City. Ask,
dark brown. For the second
gather for runway shows and
Where is it? What is it famous for?

148 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 11

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 60 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 285 ────────

11
A Watch the first part of the
video. Answer the questions
with a partner. 10 min
The video shows ordinary
people walking down the
CLOTHING
streets of New York and it also
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
shows fashion models wearing
QUESTIONS.
different types of clothing.
1. What colors do you see in the photo?
Students can speculate about
2. What are the women doing? Why are they
where the people might be
doing it?
going; for example, to shops,
WARM-UP VIDEO
fashion events, or restaurants.

A Watch the first part of the video. Answer the
questions with a partner.
B Read the list of words. Look up
1. Who are the people in the video?
any words you don’t know in
2. Where do you think they are going?
your dictionary. 5 min
In the Warm-Up, students
B Read the list of words. Look up any words you
were asked to brainstorm
don’t know in your dictionary.
✓ ✓
any clothing words that they
bags    headphones
✓    ✓
boots    jeans
already know, so you will know
hats    sunglasses
✓ ✓
if they are likely to be familiar
with the six words listed here.
C Watch the video. Check (✓) the things you see
If they are not, they can look
in B.
them up in their dictionary or
D Watch the video again. Answer the questions.
you can clarify for them.
Make a list with a partner.

1. What other items of clothing do you see?
C Watch the video. Check (✓) the
2. Do you know the words in English?
things you see in B. 5–10 min
E Answer the questions with a partner.
Play the video again and have
1. Do you like the clothes you see in the
students look for the clothing
video? Why or why not?
in B.
2. How do people dress in your city? Is it
similar to the way people dress in the
video?
D Watch the video again. Answer
My city is cold,
so we never wear . . .
the questions. Make a list with
a partner. 5–10 min
Play the video again and have
students note any other clothes
they see, either in English or in
their own language. These can
be translated and explained
afterwards. You will see a
variety of clothing, including
certain people and have students
EXTRA VIDEO VOCABULARY
jackets, coats, scarves, skirts,
call out (one at a time) the articles
bracelet    trench coat
shirts, leggings, and T-shirts.
of clothing they see, or vote on
With higher-level students, you
whether or not they like the outfit
glasses    ripped
could also ask them to say the
on the screen.
ponytail    tights
colors or styles of the clothes;
for example, black leather
© National Geographic Learningpurse
jacket, blue cotton shirt.
E Answer the questions with a
partner. 5 min
Have students discuss the
TEACHING TIP: Freeze frame
clothing in the video and give
One technique that works well
their opinion about the style
with this video is to freeze frame,
of clothes they see. Then they
or pause the video at certain
should talk about how people
points to have students describe
dress in their own city or town.
what they can see. Pause on

Teacher’s Book UNIT 11 | 149

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 61 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 286 ────────

11A SHOPPING

VOCABULARY

A Say the words with your teacher. Then talk about what you are wearing with a partner.

hat
scarf

T-shirt

gloves

jacket

shorts

pants

socks
sneakers

boots

B Look at the words in the box. Look up any words you don’t know. Then
answer the questions with a partner.

© National Geographic Learning
blouse jeans suit
dress sandals tie
heels skirt uniform

1. Which clothing items are for work?
2. Which ones are for relaxing at home?

C What do you wear at home? What do you wear at school? Tell a partner.

150 | UNIT 11

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 62 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 287 ────────

PRONUNCIATION TIP: Clothing words
11A SHOPPING
There are some clothing words that are notoriously
difficult for students to say, so spend some time
VOCABULARY
practicing them and also contrasting them. For
example, the word suit is difficult for many students.
WARM-UP 5 min
Highlight that suit is one syllable (not two) and
Review names of colors from the previous unit,
sounds like the word boot (not sweet, which is
pointing to students’ clothing for reference. For
how it is often erroneously pronounced). Words to
example, What color is Yuki’s sweater? (It’s pink.)
contrast are shirt and shorts, and shirt and skirt. You
What color are Nico’s jeans? (They’re blue.)
can also have fun trying to repeat the three words
in quick succession: “shirts, skirts, shorts, shirts,
skirts, shorts . . .”
A Say the words with your teacher. Then talk about
what you are wearing with a partner. 15–20 min
Read each word aloud and have students
CULTURE TIP: pants and trousers
repeat. As you read a word, have students point
In US English, people say pants, but in UK English,
to it so you can check that they are reading the
they say trousers. Confusingly, in UK English, pants
correct word. At first, read the words in a logical
are what you wear under your trousers (underwear,
order, maybe starting at the top with hat and
in US English). If your students might be talking to
working down to boots. But then, to add variety,
someone about clothes who uses UK English, they
say the words in any order and jump around the
should be aware of this!
page. Have students repeat the word but also try
to find it and point to it. You could also choose a
few students to do the same thing and call out
TEACHING OPTION
different clothing words. Finally, invite individual
Before starting the next exercise, you might want
students to say what they are wearing. They
to draw attention to this grammar point as a review:
could also add colors to their descriptions: I’m
In A, students used the present continuous to talk
wearing blue pants. / I’m wearing a red scarf.
about the clothes “they are wearing.” But in C, they
use the simple present to talk about the clothes
EXPANSION: Guess the person 10–15 min
“they normally wear at home and at school.” You
could write two sentences on the board like this:
Choose one student in the class, but don’t tell
students who. Describe what that person is
Normally, I wear a T-shirt and jeans at home.
wearing: Today he’s wearing a red shirt, green
pants, and white shoes. Have students look around
But today I’m wearing a suit and tie.
and try to guess who you are describing. Then
you can ask a student to choose someone and
Underline the two verb forms, elicit their names
describe them. Or students could work in pairs
(simple present and present continuous) and ask
and take turns describing and guessing. If you
students to try to explain the difference (e.g., a
think students might be sensitive about having their
regular repeated action vs. an action happening at
clothes described, you could put seven or eight
the moment of speaking).
large pictures of people from magazines on the
board. Number them 1 to 8 or give each person a
name. Then do the same exercise, but guessing the
C What do you wear at home? What do you wear at
identity of the people in the photos on the board.
school? Tell a partner. 10 min
Assign pairs and have students ask and answer
the questions using the simple present. If you
B Look at the words in the box. Look up any words
have students who go to work as well, they could
you don’t know. Then answer the questions with a
describe what they normally wear at work.
partner. 10 min
Have students check their understanding using
© National Geographic Learning
a dictionary or searching for photos of the items
online. Then have students categorize the types
of clothes for work or for relaxing at home. They
might disagree about some items or think that
others are suitable for both.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson A | 150a

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 63 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 288 ────────

a person or type of people. They don’t need to
LISTENING
understand everything else at this stage and
shouldn’t try to do so. The focus should be on
WARM-UP 5 min
listening for the key details.
Ask students to look at the photo and describe what
they can see. Then ask, What do you have to wear
in that place? Write ideas on the board, such as
C Listen again. Match each activity to the people.
warm clothes, a wool hat, a big coat, boots, a scarf.
Then, in your notebook, write sentences about
the people and their activities. 88 10 min
If necessary, play the audio again, but students
A Look at the Word Bank. What other words go with
can probably complete this task based on what
a pair of? 5–10 min
they have heard so far and on the context. You
This vocabulary appears in the audio, so allow
can either check the answers as a class, or play
some time for students to read the Word Bank
the audio again to check. Have students read
and make sure they understand the use of a
the whole sentence aloud when answering.
pair of. Then have students try to add their own
ideas.
D Listen for key vocabulary. What clothing does
M Jackson wear? Listen one more time and
LANGUAGE TIP: a pair of
complete the list. 88 5–10 min
We use the expression a pair of with things in twos
If your students feel confident now with the
(e.g., a pair of socks) or an object that is in two
listening, they could try to complete items 1–4
main parts (e.g., a pair of sunglasses). The noun
with the missing words before listening, and then
that follows a pair of is plural. Note also that when
check. Either way, tell them to listen out for key
students hear the phrase spoken at natural speed,
vocabulary related to clothing.
it can be difficult to hear because the words a and
Listen for key vocabulary. Listening for key
of are weak forms, and the word of is linked to
vocabulary only is a good way to consolidate
the main word pair. So students hear /ә pearәv/
newly introduced vocabulary and to hear it being
rather than the slowly spoken /æ per әv/. You could
used in context.
say the phrases both ways so students hear the
difference, or draw attention to the pronunciation in
the listening.
E Do you want to visit an ice cave? Why or why
not? 5 min
TEACHING TIP: Pronunciation in listenings
Students can either discuss this in pairs and
report back, or discuss as a class.
Every time you use an audio recording for a
listening exercise is an opportunity to draw
students' attention to the way a speaker says
EXTRA! Clothing for jobs 10–15 min
certain things; for example, notice how the speaker
Write a variety of job titles and types of people
in Track 88 says a pair of.
on separate pieces of paper; for example, police
officer, soldier, waiter, chef, doctor, marathon
runner, film star, motorcyclist. Put students into
B Listen for details. M Jackson is a scientist.
pairs and give each pair one of the descriptions.
Listen. Answer the questions. 88 10 min
Each pair should prepare a list of clothing that their
Explain that students are going to listen to a
person would probably wear, including any useful
description of a scientist who works in very cold
descriptive words such as the color of the clothing
places, similar to the person in the photo. Allow
or whether it is very warm clothing. Then have
time to read the three questions and discuss
students join another group and take turns reading
what some possible answers might be. Play the
their list of clothing without saying what job or type
audio twice—once to listen and once to check
of person it is for. The other pair has to listen and
answers.
© National Geographic Learningguess.
Listen for details. When you want students
to listen for and write down specific words,
encourage them to think about the type of
information they are listening for. For example,
in B, they need to listen for the name of a place
or places, the name of what she studies, and

151a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 64 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 289 ────────

LISTENING

A Look at the Word Bank. What other words go with a pair of?
WORD BANK
Possible answers: a pair of glasses / jeans / pants / socks / headphones
a pair of shoes /
B Listen for details. M Jackson is a scientist. Listen. Answer the questions. 88
sunglasses / shorts
to cold places
1. Where does M Jackson go?
ice
2. What does she study?
WORD BANK
cold
students
3. Who sometimes goes with her?
warm

C Listen again. Match each activity to the people. Then, in your notebook, write
sentences about the people and their activities. 88

1. enjoy the work
2. go down into ice caves
3. make podcasts    M Jackson
4. take photos    the students
5. travel around the world
6. wear a lot of clothing

D What clothing does M Jackson wear? Listen one more time and complete the list. 88
socks
1. two pairs of
boots
2. a pair of
three pants
3. pairs of
jackets
4. four

E Do you want to visit an ice cave? Why or why not?

A person stands in an
ice cave in Iceland.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson A | 151

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 65 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 290 ────────

SPEAKING

Galleria Alberto Sordi is a shopping
center in a historic building in
Rome. It’s on Via del Corso,
a great place to go shopping.

Store Clerk: I see. Well, we have these nice silk
A Jin is from South Korea. He’s in Rome on
scarves.
vacation. Listen. Then answer the questions. 89
He’s shopping for a gift
Jin: They’re very pretty. How much are
1. What is Jin doing?
for his sister.
they?
2. What doesn’t Jin want? How does he say
He doesn’t want the
Store Clerk: Sixty euros.
that? Underline the words.
silk scarves. He says, “I’ll think about it.”
Jin: Sixty euros? OK, I’ll think about it.
3. What does Jin buy? How does he say it?
He buys the Roma T-shirt. He
Circle the words.
Store Clerk: We also have T-shirts . . . like this
says, “That’s perfect. I’ll take it.”
Roma one.
Store Clerk: Buon giorno.
Jin: Oh, that’s cool. How much is it?
Jin: Um, hello. Do you speak English?
Store Clerk: Nineteen euros.
Store Clerk: Yes, I do. Can I help you?
Jin: That’s perfect. I’ll take it.
Jin: Oh, yeah . . . thanks. I’m shopping
for a gift for my sister.

B Practice the conversation with a partner.
SPEAKING STRATEGY 90
Saying what you want
C Imagine you’re on vacation in Italy. You want to buy a gift for
I’m looking for a gift for my sister.
© National Geographic Learning
someone. With a partner, make a new conversation.
Asking for and giving prices
• Shopper: Who are you shopping for? Tell the clerk.
How much are they?
• Store clerk: Show the shopper at least three items. Use the
They’re 60 euros.
prices below. Try to make a sale!
OK, I’ll think about it.
How much is the T-shirt?
€300 €235 €95 €40 €35
It’s 19 euros.
I’ll take it.
D Switch roles and do C again.

152 | UNIT 11

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 66 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 291 ────────

TEACHING OPTION
SPEAKING
If your students struggle to do role plays and use
WARM-UP 5–10 min
the expressions in the Speaking Strategy, you
Write Souvenir on the board and tell students to look
could let them work in pairs and write out their
it up in their dictionaries. Then ask, Do you ever buy
conversations first. It is a good way to give them
souvenirs on vacation? Do you ever buy clothes as
time to think and write before trying to speak. Once
souvenirs? What kinds of clothes?
they have written the conversations, have students
read them aloud, but then they should try to get
confident enough to look up and speak, only using
A Jin is from South Korea. He’s in Rome on
the written text to refer to if necessary.
vacation. Listen. Then answer the questions.
89 5–10 min
D Switch roles and do C again. 10–15 min
With the class, briefly discuss Rome, Italy. Ask, Has
anyone in the class been there? What currency
If desired, you can tell students that they can
(type of money) is used in Italy? (The euro.)
choose a different country and think of different
items. Help them with information about the
Point out the euro symbol in C. Then have
currencies of different places, if necessary. After
students read the questions before listening.
pairs have done this second role play, call on
Stronger classes can cover the conversation
volunteers to present their role play to the class.
with a piece of paper and find the answers by
listening. Weaker classes can read along while
CULTURE TIP: Currency
listening. After checking the answers, review the
conversation with the class. Ask students if they
While the euro is a single currency used by many
know or can guess the meaning of Buon giorno
countries, some countries use the same name for
(an Italian greeting meaning Good day or Hello).
what are actually different currencies. For example,
Point out the expression I see and tell them it
the dollar is the name of the currencies of Australia,
means I understand. Remind students about the
Canada, Namibia, Singapore, and the US, among
plural form of scarf (scarves).
others, but these countries do not share the
same currency. Similarly, peso is the name of the
currencies in Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Mexico,
B Practice the conversation with a partner. 5 min
and the Philippines. Other shared currency names
Remind students that they should be actors when
are the pound, ruble, franc, and shilling.
practicing the conversation—they should act out
their role, not just read from the page. Then have
students exchange roles and practice again.
EXTRA! Fashion catalog 30–45 min
Have students bring in magazines with color photos
EXTRA! Listen and repeat, listen and write
of people or find a variety of similar images online.
90 5–10 min
Students will either need scissors and glue to cut
out the photos or the ability to cut and paste online.
For further practice with key expressions, play the
Put students in groups of three or four and tell them
audio of the language in the Speaking Strategy and
that they are owners of a clothing store. They are
have students repeat it. Alternatively, have students
going to make a two-page catalog for their store,
close their books and play the audio as a dictation.
showing the newest fashions for people to buy.
Have students listen and write the expressions they
Each page should have pictures of at least three
hear. Then have them open their book and compare
items, with short descriptions and price information.
what they wrote with the list on the page.
Give groups plenty of time to work. When they are
finished, let them take turns showing their pages
and explaining their items to the class. For large
C Imagine you’re on vacation in Italy. You want to
classes, post the pages on the classroom walls and
buy a gift for someone. With a partner, make a
allow students time to walk around and read and
new conversation. 10–15 min
talk about them. With online classes, students can
With the whole class, begin by talking about
© National Geographic Learningshare their digital catalogs with each other.
possible gifts and souvenirs that you might buy
in Italy, and make a list of possible items on the
board. In the role play, students can refer to
this list of items or use any other ideas of their
own. Divide the class into pairs and assign roles
(shopper and clerk). Allow a minute for students
to think about what they will say before they roleplay the conversation. After pairs have finished,
talk about interesting items they saw and bought.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson A | 152a

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 67 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 292 ────────

Have is used for possession:
GRAMMAR
I have a bicycle. I don’t have a car.
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Have to is used for necessity and lack of necessity:
Write Police officer on the board or show students
We have to give our homework to the teacher. (It is
a photo of a police officer. Ask students, What
necessary.)
clothing does a police officer wear? Elicit or teach
the word uniform. Ask students who else wears a
We don’t have to give our notebooks to the teacher.
uniform; for example, a soldier, a security guard,
(It is not necessary.)
or school children (in some countries). Then write
these sentences on the board and underline the
verb forms:
C PRONUNCIATION: Want to and have to Work with
a partner. Listen and repeat. Then complete the
1. A policer officer has a uniform.
sentences with want to or have to. 91 10 min
2. A policer officer has to wear a uniform.
Have students complete the sentences with
a partner. Then have them listen and check.
Ask students to try to explain the difference
Play the audio. Play the audio again and have
between the two sentences in their own words.
students repeat.
(1 is about possession and 2 is about necessity.)

PRONUNCIATION TIP: Have to and want to
A Read the Unit 11, Lesson A Grammar Reference
Point out that have to sounds like “hafta” and want
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
to sounds like “wanna” in spoken English, but we
the exercises below. 20–30 min
never write them like that.
Go through the information in the chart with
students.
D You are going skiing and need to pack for the trip.
Discuss the questions with a partner. 10–15 min
TEACHING OPTION: The flipped classroom
Begin by having everyone look at the photo
To increase time for in-class communication, you
and asking students if they ever go skiing. If
could assign the Grammar Reference exercises for
some of them answer “yes,” ask them, What do
students to complete for homework. Then, the next
you normally pack for the trip? What clothes do
time class meets:
you wear? Elicit a few ideas and then start the
exercise.
1. Review have / have to and want / want to in the
Grammar Reference.
1. Assign pairs (or groups of three). As students
discuss the list of items, prompt them to use
2. Go through the exercises students did for
have / have to in their sentences. Make sure
homework. If necessary, present new examples
that at least one student is taking notes of
and reinforce points if students still have
which items they already have and which they
difficulties with the form. Also, allow time to take
have to get.
questions from students.
2. Next, tell students they have more space in
3. Turn back to page 153 and do the exercises
their bags, so they should start to discuss
there, starting with B.
what they want or want to pack. Again, make
sure they are using the verbs want / want to.
B Read the sentences and answer the questions.
At the end, ask a few pairs to report back on
10 min
the necessary items they have or have to pack
Have students read sentences a–d and the
and unnecessary items they want to pack.
statements in the chart again. Then have them
As students speak, focus on their use of the
choose their answers. Have them compare
grammar and whether they will need further help
answers with a partner. Check answers with
© National Geographic Learningwith the form.
the class.

GRAMMAR TIP: have to and want to

Want and want to are both used for desires:
I want a hamburger. I don’t want pizza.
I want to eat a hamburger. I don’t want to eat pizza.

153a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 68 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 293 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 11, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
exercises. Then do the exercises below.

HAVE TO AND WANT TO
Verb / Verb + to Verb Noun
➊ She has winter boots.
➋ She has to wear four jackets to go outside.
➌ He wants a silk scarf.
➍ He wants to buy a gift for his sister.

B Read the sentences and answer the questions.
a & c
1. Which two sentences have the same meaning?
2. Which sentence means something is necessary?
d

a. I want a new uniform.    c. I want to buy a new uniform.

b. I have a new uniform.    d. I have to wear a new uniform.

C PRONUNCIATION: Want to and have to Work with a partner. Listen and repeat.
Then complete the sentences with want to or have to. 91
have to
1. I buy a new sweater. This one has a big hole in it.
want to
2. I visit Jamaica on my summer vacation.
have to have to
3. You dress up. You wear a long dress.
want to
4. I have free time now. Do you do something?

D You are going skiing and need to pack for the trip. Discuss the questions with a partner.

boots    hat    sunglasses
camera    ski jacket    sweater
gloves    ski pants    two pairs of socks

1. Look at the packing list. What things
do you already have? Which ones
do you have to get?    At most ski areas,
you can rent skis and
2. What are three things that are not
poles for the day.
necessary, but that you want to
pack anyway?

I don’t have to take my own skis,
but I want to pack them anyway.
© National Geographic Learning

Lesson A | 153

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 69 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 294 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Read the questions and think about your answers.
1. Do you buy many new clothes? Where do you shop? How much do you
spend on jeans? T-shirts? shoes?

2. Complete this sentence: If you want to speak English well, you have to
.

3. Look at three people in your class. What are they wearing?
4. What is something you want to do this year?
5. At school or work, do you have to wear a uniform? Are there clothes
you cannot wear?

6. Which items of clothing are your favorites? Why?
7. Think about the clothes in your closet. What colors are they? Which
colors do you look good in?

8. Describe traditional clothes in your culture. When do people wear
them?

B Work with three or four other people.
1. Take turns. Choose a question from A.
2. Answer the question. If you can talk for one minute without stopping,
you get one point.

3. Continue until there are no more questions. The winner is the person
with the most points.

11A GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Identify clothing items
2. Mostly, yes.
Ask for and give prices of things
3. Not yet.

Women in Valencia, Spain, wear
traditional dresses for the Festival
de San Jose, held every spring.

© National Geographic Learning

154 | UNIT 11

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 70 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 295 ────────

TEACHING TIP: Encouraging the use of English
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
A common challenge in monolingual classes is
WARM-UP 5–10 min
motivating students to use English in group and
pair work. Here are some approaches to consider in
Ask, Can you talk for one minute in English without
such a situation:
stopping? Then say, Sometimes, we use small
words when we are thinking as we talk. Teach
• Explain the rationale for using only English when
expressions like well, let’s see, uh . . . , and you
practicing. Tell students that we learn to speak
know. To get students warmed up and give
English by speaking English. If appropriate,
everyone the idea, you could ask students to
tell students about your own language learning
suggest a topic and explain that you will talk about
experiences.
it for one minute. Accept a fairly straightforward
question topic like What do you do on the weekend?
• Establish a clear policy; for example, It is OK
and have a student call out when 60 seconds is
to ask questions for clarification in your first
over. If you have some confident students, one or
language, but for everything else, you must use
two could also try the same thing.
English.
• As much as possible, give instructions and
classroom management in English. Teach
A Read the questions and think about your
students expressions like Please repeat that
answers. 10 min
and Sorry, I don’t understand so they have the
Explain to students that they will have to talk
language they need to ask for help.
about the questions in A for 60 seconds, so this
is the time to prepare their answers. Working on
Diagnostics
their own, students should make notes about their
Check students’ competencies as follows:
answers and add plenty of detail. Monitor their
progress and provide help with any unknown
• Are students able to talk about different types of
words or language they need. Encourage them to
clothing?
look back through the unit for helpful words.
• Can they ask and answer questions about things
that are necessary?
B Work with three or four other people. 15–20 min
• Are they able to talk about things they want?
Divide students into groups and explain the
rules of the game with the class. Explain that if
a student talks about a question for one minute
11A
GOALS
without stopping, everyone in the group should
Review students’ self-assessment in the
cross out the question. If the student can’t talk
goals box. Point out to students where
for a whole minute, then other students can try to
they learned these skills in the unit. If they
answer that question. Make sure that at least one
rated their ability below Yes, I can, they can
student in each group has a watch that shows
turn back to those pages and review the
seconds, or have them use a cell phone to time
exercises.
themselves. Appoint another student in each
group to write down the score. Remind students
Identify clothing items: Vocabulary, page
that they can use words like well and let’s see
150, A–C; Listening, page 107, A, C, and D;
to keep talking in English, but they must not use
Active English, page 154, A and B
words in their first language. When groups have
Ask for and give prices of things: Speaking,
finished, have the winner in each group raise
page 152, A–D
his or her hand. Then, with a show of hands,
see who in the class has scored one point, two
points, or three points. Discuss strategies that
students can use to keep talking about a subject
or picture, such as giving examples, explaining
© National Geographic Learning
an idea in more detail, or telling about a personal
experience.

TEACHING TIP: Speaking tests

This game has a serious purpose. Some
international tests of English, such as the TOEFL®,
iBT®, and IELTS™, require candidates to speak
about a photo or other material for a specified length
of time without long pauses. Practicing in games
like this helps build fluency and self-confidence in
preparation for this type of testing.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson A | 154a

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 71 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 296 ────────

PRONUNICATION TIP: casual
11B STYLE
Pronunciation of the word casual is likely to cause
students the most difficulty, so have them listen and
VOCABULARY
repeat. You could also ask them to look at the words
in blue and say which have one syllable (loose,
WARM-UP 5–8 min
tight) and which have two syllables (baggy, fitted,
In Lesson A, a lot of the clothing that students
dressy). Note that with the two-syllable words, the
described was worn by women (e.g., on the opener
first syllable is stressed in each case.
page and in the Warm-Up video) so start Lesson B
off by asking them to look at the photo of the men
in Johannesburg. In pairs, ask students to describe
C Answer the questions. Make some notes.
the clothes that the men are wearing and the colors
10 min
they can see. Give them two minutes to do this and
To help prepare students for this exercise, you
then invite a few answers. Also, ask students, What
could brainstorm a few ideas on the board with
do you think of the men’s street fashion?
the whole class. For example, people often dress
up for special occasions such as a wedding, a
birthday, or a family gathering. Then elicit some
CULTURE TIP: Fashion and style
words to describe style and write them on the
People’s idea of fashion and style varies
board; for example, cool, trendy, fashionable,
considerably around the world. In some countries
casual, dressy, traditional. Finally, have students
and cultures, people tend to dress up more formally
work on their own and make some notes about
more often. For example, the men in the photo are
the questions.
all wearing suits, whereas in other cultures, people
tend to wear jeans and T-shirts and look more
casual. If you have a class with mixed nationalities,
D Work with a partner. Ask and answer the
this might be a question to ask about their
questions in C. 10–15 min
countries. With students from the same country, ask
Assign pairs and have students ask and answer
them about their experience of how people dress in
the questions. Monitor their conversations and
other countries.
give feedback on the use of any new words from
this page.

A Look at the man in the photo with the black hat
EXTRA! Photo review 5–10 min
and the light blue suit. Read the sentences.
Choose T for true or F for false. 5 min
Put students in pairs and have them look back
Check that students are looking at the correct
at the photos in the unit so far. Tell them to make
man in the photo and then tell them to read
five different sentences using the new words from
the three sentences. Clarify the meaning of the
the Lesson B vocabulary page; for example, He’s
three words in blue if necessary by pointing at
wearing a casual jacket (from the photo on the
anyone’s clothes in the class that are baggy,
Lesson A vocabulary page). Have students write
fitted, or casual. Check the answers as a class.
their ideas on the board; make corrections as
necessary with the whole class.

B Use the words in blue from A to complete the
Word Bank. 5–10 min
EXTRA! Fashion surveys 20–30 min
For further clarification, have students write the
Divide the class into groups with an equal number
three words in blue in the Word Bank. Again,
of members (such as five groups with four students
use the clothes that students are wearing in your
each). Each group should write a survey question
class to clarify, or show further online images
about clothes and fashion (such as What’s your
to illustrate the meaning, for example, between
favorite color to wear? How many pairs of jeans do
baggy and loose.
you have? How often do you wear jewelry? Do you
© National Geographic Learning
like long skirts?). When the questions are ready,
tell students in each group to count themselves off
TEACHING TIP: Use antonyms
1, 2, 3, 4, and form five new groups according to
Providing an opposite word, or antonym, is often
their numbers, with all the 1s in one group, all the
a faster way to clarify the meaning of a word than
2s in the next, and so on. Each new group should
trying to give a complete definition of its meaning.
have one member from each of the five former
Where possible, introduce an antonym that students
groups. Then students should ask their question in
have already come across. Alternatively, show
their groups and record the answers. Finally, have
images of both words to make the difference
students return to their original groups to compile
very clear.
the answers they received and prepare a short
report for the class.

155a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 72 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 297 ────────

11B STYLE

VOCABULARY

A Look at the man in the photo with the black hat and the light blue suit.
WORD BANK
Read the sentences. Choose T for true or F for false.
baggy / loose
1. The man’s pants are baggy. T F
fitted / tight
2. His jacket is fitted. T F
casual    dressy
3. He looks casual. T F

B Use the words in blue from A to complete the Word Bank.

C Answer the questions. Make some notes.
1. When do you dress up?
2. Think about your own personal style. How do you describe it?
3. Do you like to be comfortable or stylish?

D Work with a partner. Ask and answer the questions in C.
When do you dress up?
Street fashion
At the end of the year. Everyone in my family
in Johannesburg,
dresses up and we go out to dinner.
South Africa

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 155

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 73 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 298 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5 min
If your students have jobs, ask
them, What do you normally wear
to work? Write their suggestions
on the board. If your students
are still in school, ask them
what they think they will need
to wear to work in the future. If
your students are still living at
home, you can also ask them to
describe what their parents or
other family members typically
wear to work. While talking about
the topic, recycle vocabulary from
the previous page, such as dress
up and casual. You might also
introduce the words formal and
informal for talking about different
types of dress or dress codes
at work. Ask follow-up questions
such as, Do you dress formally or
informally for work? When do you
have to dress formally?

BUSINESS CASUAL . . .
A Predict. Look at the photo.
Answer the questions. 5 min
WHAT’S THAT?
Have students look at the
photo and answer the
What do people wear when they go to work
not black. A nice pair of jeans is OK, too. The
questions as a class or in
every day? There isn’t one easy answer to this
pants aren’t baggy. On their feet, they wear
small groups. They learned the
question. The dress code (a set of style rules
brown dress shoes and boots in the winter.
word casual on the previous
for a group of people) in one office is different
Women wear a nice blouse and a fitted jacket.
from the dress code in another. But there is one
page, so they should be able
The blouse covers their shoulders. They also
style that is more popular at work these days.
wear nice dress pants, or jeans, or a mediumto guess what “business
It’s called “business casual.” What is it exactly?
length skirt. On their feet, flats (comfortable
causal” might mean.
shoes without heels) are OK, but flip-flops
Business casual is a kind of dress code. It’s
(light rubber sandals) are not.
Predict. A useful reading
not too dressy and not too casual. For men, it
means “no suit,” but also “no sneakers.” In this
Men say they like business casual because
skill is for students to use any
style, men wear a nice dress shirt with a darkthey don’t have to wear a tie. Women like it,
visual clues with a reading text
colored jacket (for example, navy blue). They
too—they don’t have to wear heels. Business
to help them predict both the
also wear dress pants in gray or light gray, but
casual isn’t too dressy. That’s more comfortable
topic and type of vocabulary
for everyone. 92
they might read in it. One extra
156 | UNIT 11
task you can give students
is to predict five words they
expect to be in the text and
to complete this initial reading
casual? Find key words in the
then read it to see how many
task with the vocabulary they
article to support your answer.
of the words are in it.
already have. Tell them to
10 min
underline any words in the
© National Geographic Learning
B Read the first two paragraphs.
To complete this exercise,
text that helped them choose
How is “business casual”
students need to read the
their answer and then, when
described? 5 min
whole article, but particularly
checking as a class, ask
the second and third
Make sure students only read
students to say which were the
paragraphs, which describe
the first two paragraphs and
key words.
what business casual looks
encourage them not to worry
like for men and women. Have
too much about understanding
students compare their key
C Look at the photo again. Are
every word at this stage of the
words in pairs before checking
the people wearing business
lesson. They should be able
as a class.

156 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 74 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 299 ────────

D Read for specific information.
Read the article. What do men
and women usually wear to
Are these
the office? Complete the chart.
clothes
acceptable
Then complete the tasks below.
for work?
10–15 min

This exercise builds on the
work done in C, with students
writing the clothes mentioned in
the text into the chart. However,
once they have completed
the chart, they find additional
clothing words to complete the
two categories below it—things
not to wear and things you
don’t have to wear.

Read for specific information.
Students need to develop the
skill of reading for specific
words and information in order
to speed up their reading. This
will be especially useful in the
future if students need to take
any English exams where their
reading is tested.
A Predict. Look at the photo. Answer the
D Read the article. What do men and women
questions.
usually wear to the office? Complete the chart.
EXTRA! Listen to the text
Then complete the tasks below.
1. Where are the people?
92 5 mins
Men Women
2. What are they wearing?
If you have time in the lesson,
a nice blouse and a
a nice dress shirt with
3. Look at the title. What do you think
upper body
fitted jacket
a dark-colored jacket
“business casual” is?
don’t forget that students can
nice dress pants, jeans,
dress pants in (light)
listen and read the text. This is a
or a medium-length
lower body
gray or a nice pair of
skirt
jeans
B Read the first two paragraphs. How is
good way for them to check if they
brown dress shoes;
“business casual” described?
flats
feet
boots in winter
know the pronunciation of every
a. It’s the same in every company.
word and also to listen to the text
1. Name two things not to wear in the office:
b. It’s not very popular today.
sneakers, flip-flops
being read at normal speed. It
c. It’s between casual and dressy.
2. Name two things you don’t have to wear in
is also a way to consolidate the
a tie, high heels
d. It’s not a dress code.
the office:
lesson.
C Look at the photo again. Are the people
E Discuss the questions with a partner.
wearing business casual? Find key words in
1. What do you think of the business casual
the article to support your answer.
E Discuss the questions with a
style? Do you see it in your country?
partner. 10 min
2. Is a dress code a good idea? Why or
why not?
Have students discuss the
Lesson B | 157
questions in pairs. Then do
a class check to find out
students’ opinions.

Then have them write five dress
EXTRA! Dress code rules
code rules for their employees,
15–20 min
explaining what they have to
wear to work or don’t have to
Remind students of the use of
© National Geographic Learning
wear to work. Have students write
have to / has to and how we
five sentences. Then have them
use it for talking about what is
join another pair and read their
necessary. In pairs, tell students
sentences without saying what
to imagine they work for a
their company is. The other pair
company or organization. They
should listen and guess what type
should decide what type of
of company or organization it
workplace it is; for example, Is
might be.
it a bank? a store? a university?

Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson B | 157

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 75 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 300 ────────

LISTENING

A In your opinion, what items are not appropriate for a job
interview? Check (✓) your answers. Tell a partner.

a T-shirt
boots

a sweater    WORD BANK
a hat
When your clothes match,
sneakers    they have the same or a
a jacket

a nice shirt or blouse    similar color and style.
jewelry
Your shirt and your pants
don’t match.
B Diego wants to get a job at his school. He’s going to the interview
now. What do you think he’s wearing? Discuss with a partner.

C Diego and his sister are talking. What is Diego wearing right now?
Listen. Match the words. 93

1. brown    a. pants
2. black    b. tie
3. blue    c. jacket
4. bright red    d. shoes
5. light-colored    e. shirt

D Listen for detail and infer. Listen again. How does Diego
change his clothes? Write the new items below.
Write “NC” for “no change.” 93
NC
1. jacket ➔
gray dress pants
2. pants ➔
NC
3. shirt ➔
no tie
4. tie ➔
dark brown dress shoes
5. shoes ➔

E How do you dress for an interview? What do you wear?
Make some notes. Tell a partner.

upper body

lower body

© National Geographic Learning

Are these clothes
good for an interview?

158 | UNIT 11

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 76 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 301 ────────

the conversation in more depth. Be prepared to
LISTENING
play the audio twice and allow time for students
to compare their answers in pairs before finally
WARM-UP 5 min
checking as a class.
Write Job interview on the board. Ask if any of your
students have had a job interview. If anyone has,
Listen for detail and infer. Listening for detail
ask questions like, What was the job? Were you
is more than just listening for specific words.
nervous? How formal was the interview? In addition,
Students also need to understand the function
brainstorm any advice for job interviews, such as
of an expression such as That’s perfect or they
arrive on time and wear nice clothes.
must infer meaning from a phrase like They’re
nice, but they don’t match.
A In your opinion, what items are not appropriate
E How do you dress for an interview? What do you
for a job interview. Check (✓) your answers. Tell a
wear? Make some notes. Tell a partner.
partner. 10 min
10–15 min
Begin by referring to the person in the photo and
As it might vary depending on the job, suggest
the question next to him: Are these clothes good
to students that they all think of one job they
for an interview? Students will probably say no
would like to interview for, or a job they have
because they are too casual, but some might
interviewed for in the past. Allow time for
say it depends. For example, if the job was for a
students to make notes about what they would
summer camp counselor or a sports instructor, it
wear on their upper body and lower body.
might be fine. Next, have students look through
Then, in pairs, have students tell each other.
the list and make choices. They could also add
Encourage students to ask questions about each
notes about the items; for example, jewelry is ok
other’s choices and make suggestions if they
to wear, but not too much. Then put them in pairs
don’t think their partner’s choices are correct for
or small groups and have students compare
the job interview.
their choices and give their reasons.

EXPANSION: Different clothes for different
B Predict. Diego wants to get a job at his school.
job interviews? 10 min
He’s going to the interview now. What do you think
As an extension to E, you could have students talk
he’s wearing? Discuss with a partner. 5 min
about any differences in the clothes that people
Have students predict the type of clothes Diego
should wear to interviews for different kinds of jobs.
might be wearing for the interview. They can
Ask students to talk about what they might wear to
draw on their ideas in the Warm-Up and A.
these kinds of job interviews:
Predict. Encourage students to predict the type
1. At a tech startup
of words they might hear in a listening and also
read questions and predict the answers before
2. At a fashion magazine
they listen; as well as helping to understand the
3. At a law firm
listening, it is also a useful future exam skill to
develop.
Tell them to use actual clothes they have in their
closet to explain.
C Diego and his sister are talking. What is Diego
wearing right now? Listen. Match the words.
EXTRA! Complete a conversation 15–20 min
93 5 min
Put students into pairs and tell them to look at the
Before listening, refer students to the Word Bank
man in the photo. Ask them to imagine that he is
and clarify the meaning and use of the word
going for a job interview and he meets a friend. It
match, which they will hear in the listening. Note
is a close friend who thinks he should change his
also that the word is used in the instructions for
clothes for the job interview. (It is very similar to the
this exercise (Match the words) and that it has
audio.) Write the first four lines on the board, like
another similar meaning of putting two things
© National Geographic Learning
this:
together. Next, play the audio and have students
listen and match. Then play the audio again to
Friend: Where are you going?
check the answers.
Man: I have a job interview!
Friend: That’s great. But, can I say something?
D Listen for detail and infer. Listen again.
How does Diego change his clothes? Write the
Man: Sure, of course . . .
new items below. Write “NC” for “no change.”
Then ask students to write the next eight to ten lines
93 5–10 min
of the conversation. Afterwards, invite pairs to read
This listening task is more challenging than the
and perform their conversations to the class.
previous one, as students need to understand

Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson B | 158a

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 77 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 302 ────────

GRAMMAR TIP: Count and noncount nouns
GRAMMAR
English has two types of nouns. Some things are
WARM-UP 10–15 min
viewed as units (count nouns) and others as a whole
that is not divided (noncount nouns). You can count
This is a warm-up guessing game. Have one
nouns like jacket, class, apple (one jacket, two
student come to the front of the class and stand
jackets, three jackets). You can also count many
with their back to the board, facing the class.
noncount nouns by adding certain quantifying units:
Explain that you will write a word on the board
a piece of clothing / jewelry / fruit / bread, two pieces
behind the student. The rest of the class should
of clothing; a cup of tea / coffee, three cups of tea.
call out definitions of the word without saying it,
and the student at the front should try to guess the
Count nouns have both a singular and a plural form,
word. When the student at the front guesses a word
and can take indefinite articles or numbers before
correctly, write another on the board for the rest of
them: chair, chairs, a chair, an armchair, 15 chairs.
the class to define. Set a time limit of two minutes
for the student and see how many words he or she
Noncount nouns have no plural form, and do not
can guess in the time. Then invite another student
take indefinite articles before them: furniture, not:
up to the front and repeat the exercise as many
furnitures, a furniture, 15 furnitures.
times as you want. Choose words that students
have learned so far and that are obviously count
Abstract nouns are often noncount nouns:
or noncount nouns, such as: tie, water, jewelry,
I really like your style.
skirt, music, shoes, information, hat, coffee,
Happiness is very important in life.
homework, jacket.
Languages, school subjects, and sports are usually
When you finish the exercise, write all the count and
noncount:
noncount nouns from the guessing game around
English, Spanish, Chinese, etc.
the board. Ask students, Which words can you
count? Which can’t you count? Maybe give a couple
Math, science, soccer, tennis, etc.
of examples to get students started. Tell students,
for example, You can count ties, but you can’t count
B Read each sentence. Choose OK if the sentence
water. You can only count glasses of water. After
is correct. Choose Not OK if it has an error.
you have talked about each noun, open the book
5 min
to page 159.
Initially, have students work alone and only
decide if they think the question is correct or
A Read the Unit 11, Lesson B Grammar Reference
incorrect. They don’t need to try to rewrite the
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
sentence yet. Walk around the class, but don’t
the exercises below. 20–30 min
give too much help at this stage; use it as an
opportunity to assess how well students have
If you assigned the Grammar Reference as
understood the grammar in A so far.
homework, go over students’ work in class now.
Go over the chart with the explanation of count
and noncount nouns, referring back to your
C Work with a partner. Compare your answers.
words from the Warm-Up if necessary. As you
Rewrite the incorrect sentences to make them
go through the grammar, ask students to give
correct. 10 min
their own examples of nouns; for example, ask
Assign students to pairs and let them talk
the class to look around the room and say the
through their answers in B. If they disagree, they
names of objects they see and whether they are
should try to decide the correct answer together,
count or noncount.
but you may need to help out if the discussion
takes too long. By the end, all the pairs should
TEACHING TIP: Foundation building
have rewritten the questions correctly, so check
as a class before moving on to D.
Japanese and other East Asian languages do not
contain noncount nouns. Because of this, these
© National Geographic Learning
students may have an especially difficult time
D Take turns. Ask and answer the questions in B
grasping this grammar concept. Spending class
with your partner. 15 min
time reviewing both the grammar page in the unit
In the same pairs, have students ask and answer
and the Grammar Reference page, rather than
the questions in B. Students can give Yes / No
assigning it for homework, will allow you to assess
answers, but encourage them to give extra
your class’s comprehension and fix any incorrect
details. For example, if they answer Yes, I do
usage before it becomes a habit.
to item 1, they could explain what type of new
shoes they’d like to buy.

159a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 78 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 303 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 11, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

COUNT AND NONCOUNT NOUNS
English divides nouns into things we can count (count nouns) and things we can’t (noncount nouns).
Count nouns are singular (= one thing) and plural Noncount nouns only have a singular form.
(= two or more things).    They don’t have a plural form.
I have four ties, but none of them match this shirt. What kind of jewelry do you like?
Use a or an before singular count nouns.    Don’t use a or an before noncount nouns.
I need a new jacket for my interview.    I need new jewelry for my interview.
Use some for general amounts. Use it with plural    Use some with noncount nouns, too.
count nouns.    I need to buy some new furniture.
I have some nice skirts.
Use a pair of to count things that are always plural (pants ➔ a pair of pants)
You can also use a pair of to count things that come in sets of two (shoes ➔ a pair of shoes)
Common noncount nouns: furniture, information, jewelry, mail, money, music, vocabulary

B Read each sentence. Choose OK if the sentence is correct. Choose Not OK if it has an error.
OK / Not OK 1. Do you want to buy a new shoes?
Do you want to buy new shoes?
OK / Not OK 2. Do you like to wear bright colors?

OK / Not OK 3. Do you wear school uniform?
Do you wear a school uniform?
OK / Not OK 4. Do you sometimes wear a jewelry?
Do you sometimes wear jewelry?
OK / Not OK 5. What are some styles you like?

OK / Not OK 6. Do you like a hip-hop music?
Do you like hip-hop music?
OK / Not OK 7. Do you have a lot of homeworks?
Do you have a lot of homework?
OK / Not OK 8. Is it easy for you to learn new vocabularies?
Is it easy for you to learn new vocabulary?

C Work with a partner. Compare your answers. Rewrite the incorrect sentences to
make them correct.

D Take turns. Ask and answer the
questions in B with your partner.
© National Geographic Learning
Colorful silk and
cotton are used to
make traditional
clothing for women
in South Asia.

Lesson B | 159

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 79 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 304 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Look at the photo and read about Cristiano Ronaldo. Answer the questions.
Discuss with a partner.

1. What is Cristiano Ronaldo’s style?
2. Do you like it?

Cristiano Ronaldo wears clothes from many different brands.
For a casual look,* he likes to wear a nice pair of shoes, jeans, and a dress shirt.
For a dressy look, he likes to wear a fitted suit with a tie.
He looks good in a sweater or a leather bomber jacket with boots and a pair of sunglasses.
He matches his shoes, pants, and shirts perfectly. He’s stylish.

*a casual look = a casual style

B Answer the questions.
1. Who do you follow on social media?
2. Talk about the person’s casual and dressy looks. Make some notes.

3. What do you like about the person’s style?

C WRITING Write about the person in B. Describe his or her style. Use the model
in A to help you.

D Work with a partner. Take turns being Student A.
Student A: Tell your partner about your person’s style.

Student B: Ask a follow-up question.

E Switch partners. Tell two more classmates about your person in B.

F As a class, write the names of five stylish people on the board.
Take a vote. Who is the most stylish?

11B GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Describe clothing
2. Mostly, yes.
Talk about personal style
3. Not yet.
© National Geographic Learning
Cristiano Ronaldo is a famous
soccer player. He sometimes
wears a leather bomber jacket.

160 | UNIT 11

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 80 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 305 ────────

While reading their description aloud, students
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
should look up rather than just looking down at
their writing. The other student needs to listen
WARM-UP 5–10 min
carefully and ask a question at the end. If you
Write Social media on the board and ask students,
think students might need help with questions to
Which social media do you use? Ask a few
ask, you could suggest or elicit a few and write
supplementary questions, such as How many
them on the board:
people do you follow? What groups do you join?
Which type of posts do you “like”?
• Why do you follow this person?
• Which brands do they wear?
• Why do you think they're stylish?
A Look at the photo and read about Cristiano
Ronaldo. Answer the questions. Discuss with a
• Do you ever buy clothes because of this
partner. 10–15 min
person? Which ones?
Have students look at the photo of Cristiano
Ronaldo and read the caption at the bottom of
E Switch partners. Tell two more classmates about
the page. Ask students what else they know
your person in B. 10 min
about Ronaldo (e.g., Who does he play soccer
Have students repeat the exercise in D with a
for? Which country is he from?). Note that some
new partner. They can even repeat it a third time
students may not like soccer or know much about
if you'd like. Once students start to get more
Ronaldo, so encourage other students to provide
confident with their descriptions, they should
most of the information. Then have students
be able to talk without referring to their writing.
read the text on their own and make notes about
You can also start to monitor and correct the
the two questions. Have volunteers share their
language at this stage.
answers with the whole class, or put students in
small groups in large classes. Students’ answers
can include information from the text and also
F As a class, write the names of five stylish people
their opinions. The text describes his casual look
on the board. Take a vote. Who is the most
(or style) and his more dressy look (style).
stylish? 5–10 min
Having completed all the previous exercises, you
B Answer the questions. 10–15 min
will have a good idea about what kind of people
your class thinks are stylish. Choose five of them
You can approach this exercise in a few different
and write their names on the board for a class
ways. Students can work alone and make notes
discussion.
about the person they choose, or they can
discuss their choices in pairs and write notes
Diagnostics
as they speak. If you have any students who
Check students’ competencies as follows:
don’t follow people on social media, ask them
to choose someone such as a famous film star,
• Are students able to talk about clothing and
musician, or sports personality that they like.
personal style?
• Can they write about the style of someone
famous?
C WRITING Write about the person in B. Describe
his or her style. Use the model in A to help you.
• Are they able to ask questions about personal
15–20 min
style?
Before students start writing, you could support
them by giving a structure to follow.
11B
GOALS
• Introduce the person.
Review students’ self-assessment in the
• Describe the person’s different looks or styles.
goals box. Point out to students where
• Describe the types of clothes they wear.
they learned these skills in the unit. If they
© National Geographic Learning
rated their ability below Yes, I can, they can
• Explain why you like their style.
turn back to those pages and review the
You could also have students underline any
exercises.
useful words and phrases in the model in A that
Describe clothing: Vocabulary, page 155,
they could reuse.
A and B; Reading, page 157, A, C, and D;
Listening, page 158, B–E; Active English,
D Work with a partner. Take turns being Student A.
page 160, A–E
30–40 min
Talk about personal style: Vocabulary,
page 155, C and D; Grammar, page 159, D
Using their writing in C, students should
present their famous person to their partner.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson B | 160a

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 81 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 306 ────────

Students can select most of the correct answers
GLOBAL VOICES
by watching what is on the screen, so remind
them not to worry if they don’t understand every
WARM-UP 5–10 min
word at this stage.
Tell students to look at the photo. Ask, What can
you see? What are the people doing? Elicit general
answers and encourage students to name as many
D Watch again. Match the words on the left (1–6)
things as they can in the photo, such as bicycles, a
with the words on the right (a–e). 10 min
road, people in hats, jackets, and colorful socks.
Before watching, let students read the words and
try to guess which match. Clarify the meaning of
vintage, which refers to something of high quality
ABOUT THE VIDEO
made in the past. Also, check that students know
This Global Voices video looks at an annual event
the pronunciation of all the words; to go further,
that takes place in London, UK, usually in May,
you could also have them listen to the words
called The Tweed Run. A group of people ride their
and underline the stressed syllable in each. For
bicycles through London, passing all the main
example, stylish, traditional, vintage, beautiful,
famous places, like Buckingham Palace. They
popular, casual.
ride old and traditional bicycles in very traditional
clothing from the early part of the twentieth century.
Then play the video again so that students can
In particular, they wear clothing made from a
check their answers.
material called tweed. During the day, they also
stop for a picnic at lunchtime and a cup of tea. It
E Think about a festival or event you know. Prepare
is a fun event for the cyclists, and tourists enjoy
to tell a partner about it. Answer the questions.
watching them because they look very traditionally
Make some notes. 10 min
British.
Remind students about the topic of special
occasions and festivals in Unit 8. They
A Look at the photo and read the caption. Then
might even find it helpful to briefly look back
guess the answers to the questions. 10 min
through that unit and think about some of the
Have students read the caption with the photo
festivals they discussed. They can reuse the
and then try to answer the questions. The main
same festivals here, but they should focus on
aim of this exercise is to check that students
describing what type of clothing is worn and,
understand the basic meaning of tweed and
ideally, it should be a festival they join in. If they
that they are prepared for particular words in
do dress up for a specific festival, you could ask
the video. For item 3, write their predictions on
them to bring in a photo of themselves dressed
the board so they can refer back to them when
up for the festival.
watching in B.

F Talk for 30–45 seconds. Tell a partner about the
EXTRA! Watch the video with no sound
festival or event. 5–10 min
5–10 min
Assign pairs and have students take turns
To help students make predictions about the video,
presenting their festivals. With smaller classes,
you could show part (or all) of it with the sound off.
students could present to the whole class. To
Doing this allows students to focus on what they
structure their short talk, you could scaffold the
can see and try to guess what the people might be
exercise by writing these stages to follow on the
saying during the video.
board:
• Introduce your festival (the name, location,
time of year).
B Watch the first part of the video. Check your
• Describe what people wear (clothes,
answers in A. 10 min
costumes, colors).
Play the video with the sound on and have
© National Geographic Learning
• Say why you enjoy joining or watching it.
students check their answers and predictions
in A. Pause the video if necessary and pick
At the end of the talk, you could ask the students
out anything on the screen that will help clarify
who are listening to ask one question.
the meaning of words like rough and thick
and to clarify that that description is only used
for clothes like suits, not shoes (which would
TEACHING ONLINE
probably be made of leather).
Students could record their talks in F on video for
homework and then share the video online with the
class. If they have special clothes that they wear
C Watch the rest of the video. What do people do
at a festival, encourage them to wear them in their
on the Tweed Run? Check (✓) your answers.
video recording!
10 min

161a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 82 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 307 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A Look at the photo and read the caption. Then guess the answers to the questions.
WORD BANK
1. What is tweed? Choose the correct answers.
fabric
a. It’s a rough and thick / soft and thin fabric.

b. It’s a cheap / an expensive fabric.

2. What do people usually make out of tweed? Cross out the one that doesn’t belong.
hats jackets shoes skirts suits

3. The name of the video is The Tweed Run. What do you think the video is about?

B Watch the first part of the video. Check your answers in A.

C Watch the rest of the video. What do people do on the Tweed Run? Check (✓) your answers.
✓    ✓
have a dance party    have lunch    stop for tea
✓ ✓ ✓
have fun    meet new people    wear bright clothes

D Watch again. Match the words on the left (1–6) with the words on the right (a–e).
1. stylish    a. bikes
2. traditional    b. British clothing
3. vintage    c. clothes
4. beautiful    d. cycling event
5. popular    e. fabric
6. casual

E Think about a festival or event you know. Prepare to tell a partner about it. Answer the
questions. Make some notes.

1. What clothes do people wear?
2. Do you like to join in?

F Talk for 30–45 seconds. Tell a partner about the festival or event.
Stylish bicyclists on
the streets of London

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 161

WLTB_INT_U11_ptg01.indd 83 22/05/21 6:20 PM

──────── Page 308 ────────

UNIT 12

12
ABOUT THE PHOTO
Dyson Limited is a British
company that designs and
manufactures innovative
household appliances and
personal-care devices. In the
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THEJOBS
photo, a sound engineer is testing
QUESTIONS.
the noise emitted by one of the
1. What is the man’s job? Is this job hard or easy?
company’s products: a hair dryer
2. Do you want to do a job like this? Why or
that prevents damage caused
why not?
by high heat. Audio engineers
at Dyson work together with
WARM-UP VIDEO
robots to test the loudness, tonal
quality, and other sounds that the
A Read the information below. In your country,
company’s machines make.
do students have Career Day? Tell a partner.

The video is about Career Day in the US.
On Career Day, young students give a
INTRODUCE THE THEME
short presentation to their classmates
Whether your learners are currently
about a job they want to do in the future.
employed or full-time students,
B Look at the jobs below and say them with
they will need to know how to
your teacher. Which do you know? Look up
talk about the world of work. In
the ones you don’t know in a dictionary.
Lesson A, students learn the
✓    ✓
an actress    a photographer
names of different jobs and explore
✓ ✓
a baseball player    the president
the role that robots are playing in
a doctor    a soccer player
some workplaces. They also learn
✓
a filmmaker    a surfer
to explain where they work (or
a graphic designer    a teacher
would like to in the future) and say
✓
a musician    a veterinarian
what the job is like. In Lesson B,
students talk more about their work
C Watch the video with the sound off. What
goals and abilities. They consider
jobs do the students want to do in the future?
Check (✓) the jobs in B.
career opportunities for bilingual
speakers. They also explore how
D Watch the video with the sound on. Check
they can turn a hobby into a way to
your answers in B.
make money. The unit closes with
a National Geographic Explorer
E Which job(s) in B are interesting to you? Tell
talking about the work he does.
a partner.

WARM-UP 5 min
Say the unit title and have the
class repeat. Then have students
brainstorm any jobs they may
know in English or have learned
in earlier units. There’s no need to
volunteer to explain what the man
students are talking about their
pre-teach a lot of vocabulary at
does in his job. Then poll the class
dream jobs—i.e., what they want
this point. Write their ideas on the
about the questions, Do most
to be “when they grow up.”
board.
people think his job is hard or
easy? Why? Do students want to
Warm-Up 5 min
© National Geographic Learning
Look at the photo. Answer the
do a job like this? Why or why not?
Write the word career on the
questions. 5–10 min
board and say it with the class.
Look at the photo and read the
Explain to students that career
WARM-UP VIDEO
caption. Say, sound engineer and
and job are similar in meaning,
About the video
hair dryer with the class. Have
but when we talk about a career,
In the video, a group of
students use their dictionaries to
we usually mean a job that a
elementary school children
look up these words, or translate
person does for many years and
celebrate Career Day. In the US,
them into students’ native
has usually studied for. Elicit
some schools host these events
language. Then give pairs a few
careers that they might already
so students can learn about
minutes to answer the questions.
know.
different jobs. In the video, the
When they have finished, ask a

162 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 12

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 60 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 309 ────────

A Read the information below. In
your country, do students have
Career Day? Tell a partner.
5 min

Have students answer the
question with a partner. Take
ideas from the class.

B Look at the jobs below and
say them with your teacher.
Which do you know? Look up
the ones you don’t know in a
dictionary. 5 min
Say the jobs with students. As
you do, have them mark the
ones they know. (Note: The
word veterinarian is usually
shortened to vet.) Then go
over the words students don’t
know. Help them understand
unfamiliar words by showing a
photo, translating the word, or
saying the name of a person
who does the job. Students
can also use their dictionaries.

C Watch the video with the sound
off. What jobs do the students
want to do in the future?
Check (✓) the jobs in B.
10 min
A sound engineer tests
the noise made by a
Tell students that they are
hair dryer.
going to watch a video about
Career Day. Then play the
video with the sound off. As
students watch, they should
mark the jobs in B that the
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
children want to do.
/ Identify different jobs    / Explain your work goals
/ Talk about your job    / Talk about things you can and can’t do
After viewing, have students
compare their answers with a
partner, but do not discuss the
answers as a class yet.
E Which job(s) in B are
interesting to you? Tell a
partner. 10 min
D Watch the video with the sound
on. Check your answers in B.
Have students look at the list
10 min
in B again and decide which
© National Geographic Learning
job they want to do. Have them
Play the video again, this
write a few notes about the job
time with the sound on.
and why they like it. In pairs,
Tell students to check their
have students discuss their
answers in B. Then check
choices. Then poll the class
answers with the class. Play
on the different jobs: which are
the video again as necessary.
the most popular?

Teacher’s Book UNIT 12 | 163

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 61 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 310 ────────

12A WHAT DO YOU DO?

VOCABULARY

A Say the jobs with your teacher. Look up new words in your dictionary.
i Notice:
business healthcare law and safety
Many jobs
end in -er,
manager*    dentist    lawyer
-or, or -ist.
receptionist    doctor    police officer
nurse security guard
salesperson

restaurant technology travel and hospitality
chef    flight attendant
engineer
cook
hotel desk clerk*
IT manager
tour guide
server (waiter / waitress)
software developer

*different types:
office / sales / store manager
desk / store clerk

B Say the jobs below with your teacher and think about their meanings. Then write each job in the
chart in A with a partner.

cook engineer nurse salesperson security guard tour guide

C Choose five jobs from A and B. Then act them out for your partner. Your partner guesses the jobs.

D Answer the questions with a partner.
1. Which jobs in the chart . . .
• require English? (You have to use
English.)

• make the most money?
• are interesting to you?

In a big hotel, a desk
clerk has to use
English.

2. Do you know anyone with these
jobs?

© National Geographic Learning
My dad is a . . .

Joy Buolamwini is a computer scientist.
She studies the use of artificial
intelligence (AI) in our daily lives.

164 | UNIT 12

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 62 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 311 ────────

B Say the jobs below with your teacher and think
12A WHAT DO YOU DO?
about their meanings. Then write each job in the
chart in A with a partner. 10 min
VOCABULARY
Say the jobs aloud with students a couple of
times. As you do, help students understand the
WARM-UP 5 min
meanings as you did in A. Then have students
Have students look at the headings in black in
work with a partner to write each job in the
the chart. Remind students they learned words
correct category in the chart. Go over answers
like business, law, hospitality, technology (IT),
together as a class.
and nursing in Unit 4. They also learned health,
restaurant, and travel in earlier units. Say these
words again with the class and review their
C Choose five jobs from A and B. Then act them
meanings.
out for your partner. Your partner guesses the
jobs. 5 min
Model the exercise by acting out one or two
A Say the jobs with your teacher. Look up new
of the jobs in A for the class as you might in a
words in your dictionary. 10 min
game of charades. Then have students do the
Say the jobs with students. As you do, have
same with five different jobs they choose.
them mark the ones they know. Then go over
the words students don’t know. Help them
understand unfamiliar words. Students can also
D Answer the questions with a partner. 10 min
use their dictionaries.
Give students a few minutes to discuss the
questions. Then go over them with the class. Poll
When you say manager, point out that there
students on which jobs are the most interesting
are different kinds of managers: office manager
and why. For question two, find out which jobs
(e.g., in a company), store manager. There are
people have.
also different kinds of clerks: hotel clerk or a
store clerk.
EXTRA! What’s my job? 30 min
Point out, too, that many jobs in English end in
Put students in groups of four. Have each group
-er / -or. In standard American English, jobs that
take 20 slips of paper. On ten slips of paper, they
end in -or in writing (doctor, professor, editor) are
should write 100. On three, they should write 200.
pronounced -er when spoken.
On another three, they should write 300. On two,
Other jobs end in -ist. Ask students to find three
write 400, and on another two, 500. Students should
on the page with this suffix (receptionist, dentist,
mix the papers and put them face down on the
scientist). For the last one, write science on the
desk. Then give students in each group a role:
board and remind students they learned it in Unit 4.
Student A chooses a job from page 162 or 164.
Next to it, write scientist. Ask students about the
On a separate piece of paper, A writes the spaces
woman in the photo: What’s her job? (Answer:
for each letter in the word. Example: If the job is
She’s a computer scientist. She studies AI.)
server, A writes: __ __ __ __ __ __.

LANGUAGE TIP: Gender neutral titles
Students B, C, and D close their books and try to
guess the word. To do this, Student B goes first,
Though suffixes like -man or -ess were once
chooses a slip of paper (e.g., 100 points), and says
common (fireman, salesman, waitress), gendera letter. Each correct letter is worth the number of
neutral titles are now used more often in the
points on the paper. For example, if B says r and
workplace (firefighter, salesperson, server).
there are two r’s in the word server, it’s possible for
B to get 200 points. Student A writes r in the two
LANGUAGE TIP: chef vs. cook
spaces. If B can guess the job in five seconds, he
In a restaurant, a chef (note that ch is pronounced
gets the points and wins the round. If not, then it’s
sh) manages the kitchen and makes decisions
Student C’s turn. C chooses a paper and guesses
© National Geographic Learning
about the menu. A cook prepares the food.
a letter in the word. The round continues until
someone guesses the job and says it correctly
aloud. After twenty minutes, the winner is the person
LANGUAGE TIP: Artificial intelligence (AI)
with the most points. Play again with someone else
Artificial intelligence, often referred to as AI
as Student A.
(pronounced like the letters A – I), is the ability
of computers to learn from data and experience,
and to do tasks that require communication and
decision making. Today, AI is used in many fields,
including retail shopping, healthcare, business, law,
and transportation.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson A | 164a

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 63 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 312 ────────

should also be able to guess nurse’s aide from
LISTENING
the photo.) Then play the audio once and have
students choose the jobs the speaker mentions.
WARM-UP 5 min
Play the audio a second time. Then have
Write robot on the board and say it with the class.
students compare answers with a partner. Check
Also, say the words in the Word Bank with students
answers as a class.
and make sure they understand their meanings.
Listen for details. In C, D and E, students are
Then ask students to cover the photo caption. Ask
listening for details. Remind them that they do
them to explain in their own words to a partner what
not need to understand everything that’s said;
they think is happening in the photo. Tell them to
they only need to listen for the information they
use robot and words in the Word Bank. Take ideas
need. Before they listen, remind students to read
from the class.
the sentences or questions so they know which
information to attend to.
A Look at the photo. What job is the robot doing?
Tell a partner. 5 min
D Listen. For Job 1, write the robot’s job. For the
question, check (✓) the correct answer(s).
Have students uncover the photo caption and
95 10 min
check their ideas from the Warm-Up. Then ask
students, In a hospital, who usually does this job
Tell students that they will hear about a job that
(the one the robot is doing in the photo)? What
a robot does. Have them read the information
other kinds of jobs do robots do?
for Job 1. Then play the audio. Stop it after the
speaker says the first sentence (In some places,
robots are also managers in stores, hotels, and
B Listen for the main idea. Read the sentence.
even software companies.). Ask, What is the
Then listen and choose the correct answer.
robot’s job? Tell students to write the name of the
94 10 min
job in the chart.
Have students read the sentence and the three
answer choices. Explain that when they listen,
Then have students look at the three answers
they want to understand what the talk is mainly
under What does the robot do? Play the rest of
about.
the audio and have students choose the correct
answer(s). Have them compare answers with a
Introduce the extra words below. Then play the
partner. Play the audio a second time if needed.
audio once and have students choose their
Then check answers as a class.
answer. Play the audio a second time if needed.
Have students check their answer choice with a
E Listen and complete Job 2 in D. 96 10 min
partner. Tell them to explain why they chose that
answer—what did they hear the speaker say?
Tell students that they will now hear about the
Then check answers as a class.
second job that a robot does. Repeat the steps
in D.
MORE WORDS
disagree
F What do you think about robots in the workplace?
Explain your opinion to a partner. 15 min
worried
Have students tell a partner what they think of
robots in the workplace. For support, write this
Listen for the main idea. When we listen for the
sentence stem on the board, I think robots are __
main idea, our goal is to understand the most
for the workplace. Tell students to complete it
important point being discussed. In a formal talk
with their answer: good, bad, both good and
or lecture, a speaker may say something at the
bad. Have students explain their reasons to a
start or the end of the talk—or both—to identify
partner. Tell them to use information from the
what the main idea is. Students should pay
listening.
attention to these parts of the talk. As they listen,
© National Geographic Learning
they should also focus on key (important) words
You could also write good, bad, and both good
the speaker uses.
and bad on the board and have students choose
an answer. Then put students with differing
opinions in pairs or a small group and have
C Listen for details. Which jobs are robots doing
them discuss their ideas. At the end, point to
these days? Listen again and circle the answers.
the answer choices on the board and poll the
94 10 min
class on what people think. Did anyone’s opinion
Ask the question in the direction line aloud. Tell
change when talking to a classmate?
students to read the answer choices and mark
any they remember from the first listening. (They

165a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 64 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 313 ────────

LISTENING

A Look at the photo. What job is the robot doing? Tell a partner.

B Listen for the main idea. Read the sentence. Then listen and
WORD BANK
choose the correct answer. 94
aide: helper
The talk is about why robots in the workplace.
hospital: a place for sick people
slow fast
a. we need more
stressful: hard, causing stress
b. there aren’t many

c. people like and don’t like

C Which jobs are robots doing these days? Listen again and circle the answers. 94
a. cleaner    f. receptionist
b. doctor    g. security guard
c. manager    h. server
d. nurse    i. software developer
e. nurse’s aide    j. teacher

D Listen. For Job 1, write the robot’s job. For the question, check (✓) the correct
answer(s). 95

The robot’s job What does the robot do?
works slowly
manager
Job 1    cleans rooms
✓
tells people to go faster
✓
cleans rooms
nurse’s aide    ✓
Job 2    brings things
teaches people

E Listen and complete Job 2 in D. 96

F What do you think about robots in the workplace? Explain your opinion to a partner.

A robot takes the temperature of a
person at a hospital in Egypt.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson A | 165

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 65 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 314 ────────

A Read and listen to the conversation.
SPEAKING
Then answer the questions. 97
Gabe is a game
1. What does Gabe do?
developer. He makes video games.
2. Who does he work for?
He works for a startup.
3. What does he think of his job?
He says the job is fun, but he works long hours sometimes.
Miko: Are you coming to the park with
us tomorrow, Gabe?

Gabe: No, sorry. I have to work.

Miko: Oh, you’ve got a job? What do
you do?

Gabe: I’m a game developer.

Miko: Cool. So what’s that like?

Gabe: It’s fun, but the hours are long.
Sometimes I work twelve hours
a day.

Miko: That’s a lot. Who do you work
for?

Gabe: A startup* here in the city.
*A startup is a new, small company, usually
in tech.
A young man plays a
virtual reality game.

B PRONUNCIATION: Question word + do + you Listen again to the questions and answers.
Then say them with a partner. 98

A: What do you do? A: Who do you work for?

B: I’m a game developer. B: A startup here in the city.

C Practice the conversation in A with a partner.
SPEAKING STRATEGY 99
Talking about jobs
D Review the Speaking Strategy. Then complete the
a game developer /
conversations with the correct forms of the words in bold.
I’m
What    an office manager.
do
1. A: What you do?
do you    a hotel / a bank /
I work in
I’m
do?    a cafe.
B: a flight attendant.
work for
I work for Apple / Toyota.
I Korean Air.
does
2. A: What your brother do?
© National Geographic Learningworks in
B: He an office.

E Interview five classmates about their jobs. Take notes.
What do you do?    What do you do?

I’m a . . . I work . . . I . . . now, but I want to be a . . . in the future.

F Compare your answers in E with a partner. What are popular answers?

166 | UNIT 12

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 66 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 315 ────────

C Practice the conversation in A with a partner.
SPEAKING
5 min
WARM-UP 5 min
In pairs, have students practice the entire
conversation. After they’ve done it once, ask
Write developer on the board. Elicit what it means.
them to switch roles and practice again.
Remind students that they learned software
developer on the vocabulary page. Explain that
a developer makes something (e.g., a software
LANGUAGE TIP: Work at
developer makes software / computer programs).
It’s also possible to use work at to talk about a
Elicit other types of developers they know about.
generic place: I work in / at a hotel. But if you use a
Explain that in the conversation, they will hear about
company name, use work at (or work for), not work
another kind of developer.
in. I work at the Marriott Hotel.

A Read and listen to the conversation. Then answer
D Review the Speaking Strategy. Then complete the
the questions. 97 10 min
conversations with the correct forms of the words
Play the conversation and have students read
in bold. 10 min
along. At the end, give students a few minutes to
Say the Speaking Strategy question and replies
answer the questions with a partner. Then check
with the class. Then have students complete the
answers as a class. For question 1, get students
two conversations. Check answers as a class,
to explain what Gabe does. (Answer: He’s a
and then have students practice with a partner.
game developer. This means he makes games,
like the one in the photo.) Then take answers for
questions 2 and 3.
E Interview five classmates about their jobs. Take
notes. 15 min
Next, draw students’ attention to Gabe’s
Have students look at the two short exchanges.
statement in the conversation: I’m a game
Complete the first one with the class with an
developer. Say to students, Miko wants to
example—e.g., What do you do? I’m a doctor. I
know Gabe’s job. What question does he ask?
work in a hospital, but I also have an office.
(Answer: What do you do?) Then say, To learn
where Gabe works, what does Miko ask?
For the second one, explain that you can use this
(Answer: Who do you work for?) Tell students to
sentence to talk about the future. Maybe they
underline the two questions in the conversation.
are a student now and don’t have a job yet, or
maybe they have a job and want to change it.
B PRONUNCIATION: Question word + do + you
For this answer, a person might say something
Listen again to the questions and answers. Then
like, I’m a student, but in the future, I want to be
say them with a partner. 98 10 min
a nurse.
Tell students to listen once to the excerpts from
Have students write their sentences in their
the conversation and to pay attention to how the
notebook. Circulate, helping with vocabulary.
question words + do + you are said. Encourage
Then have students ask and answer questions
students to read along and echo what the
with five people. Tell them to take notes.
speakers are saying. Then have students take
turns saying them with a partner.
LANGUAGE TIP: I’m studying / training to
be . . .
LANGUAGE TIP: Reductions
When people are in college studying for a certain
In many “question word + do + you” combinations,
job or are in a vocational training program, it’s also
the unstressed vowels in do and you are reduced to
common to say things like this:
schwa / ә / in everyday speech. For example, Who
do you work for? (becomes Who /d y / work for?
I’m studying to be a nurse / teacher / pharmacist.
© National Geographic Learning
Students don’t have to speak this way right away,
I’m training to be a dental assistant / an electrician.
but recognizing what they will hear can be helpful at
this level. Note: When do is at the beginning or end
F Compare your answers in E with a partner. What
of an utterance, it’s usually pronounced /du/:
are popular answers? 10 min
Do you work tomorrow? What do you do?
Have students tell a partner the answers they
heard from their classmates. After a few minutes,
ask the class what some popular answers were
(ones they heard more than once).

Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson A | 166a

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 67 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 316 ────────

Have students practice the conversation with
GRAMMAR
a partner. While they’re doing this, write these
questions on the board: 1) What does Person
WARM-UP 10 min
B do? 2) What’s his job like? Why? 3) What
Write on the board, What’s . . . like? Then ask
are his coworkers like? When students are
students to look at the first conversation in the chart.
done, tell them to answer the questions on the
Explain that when speaker B asks, What’s that like?,
board in their own words, without looking at the
that means your job. So the question means How is
conversation if possible. Go over answers with
your job? Is it hard, fun, interesting? We often reply
the class.
with an adjective.

Next, tell students to look at the photo. Ask,
D Work with a partner. Complete the task.
What are the workers doing? (Answer: They’re
20–30 min
installing—putting—lights on a tall building.) Then
Have students work in pairs to talk about three
ask, What’s this job like? (Possible answers: hard,
jobs. For each one, they should answer the
stressful, dangerous) Then show students that it’s
questions. Go over them with the class.
also possible to use What’s . . . like? to ask about
people, as in the second example in the chart.
1. What’s the job like? (What are good and bad
things about it?)

A Read the Unit 12, Lesson A Grammar Reference
2. What are the people (with this job) like?
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
3. Where do people with this job work?
the exercises below. 20 min
Use the example to model how to answer these
Have students turn to the Grammar Reference,
questions. Students can use the adjectives
go over the chart, and then do exercise A there.
in B in their sentences or others they think of.
When they’re done, check answers as a class.
Circulate, helping with vocabulary. Then have
Then have students practice the four short
students get together with another pair to share
conversations with their partner.
their ideas. At the end, ask each pair to share
Alternatively, you may wish to assign the
one job with the class.
exercise in the appendix for homework. Then,
during the next class, put students in pairs and
TEACHING OPTION
have them check their answers.
Instead of pairs talking about three jobs, assign
each pair one job so that each pair talks about a
B Say the words in the chart below with your
different job. It can be from this lesson (to recycle
teacher. Then answer the questions with a
vocabulary) or another you think of (e.g., beauty
partner. 10 min
vlogger / influencer, tattoo artist, firefighter). If a pair
Tell students that the words in the chart are
doesn’t like the job they’ve been given, they can
adjectives. Some they know; others are new.
choose their own or talk about one they do, but it
Say the words aloud with students. As you
can’t duplicate another in class. Tell each pair to
do, have them mark the ones they know. Then
create a short (minute-long) presentation about their
give students a few minutes to answer the two
job. In their talk, students should answer the three
questions in pairs. When they have finished, go
questions in D. They can also use photos or video.
over any unfamiliar words and illustrate them
with sentences. Then have students tell you
When everyone is ready, put pairs together to form
which words have a positive (good) meaning
groups of four. One pair should give their talk while
and which have a negative (bad) one.
the other listens and takes notes. At the end, the
other pair can ask questions. Then it’s the other
pair’s turn. Repeat this step, with each pair joining
C Choose the correct answers. Then practice the
a new pair, so that students learn about three jobs.
conversation with a partner. 10 min
At the end, ask students to review their notes and
Tell students to complete the conversation on
answer this question in their notebooks: What’s
their own. Then check answers with the class.
© National Geographic Learningsomething you learned? Students can share their
As you do, draw students’ attention to the
thoughts with the class. Review any problems with
information note about very and kind of. Students
language that came up during the presentations.
learned very in Unit 10. Explain that we use kind
of (meaning a little) to soften a negative word:
The job is kind of hard. He’s kind of lazy.

167a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson A

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 68 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 317 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 12, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
exercises. Then do the exercises below.

QUESTIONS WITH LIKE
A: I’m a game developer. A: My coworker is from Brazil.
B: Really? What’s that like? B: Oh? What’s he like?
A: It’s fun, but the hours are long. A: He’s nice.

B Say the words in the chart below with your teacher. Then answer the questions with
a partner.

1. Which words do you know? Look up new words in your dictionary.
2. Does each word have a positive or negative meaning?

Describe jobs Describe people
boring    hard    boring    helpful
N    N N    P
cool    interesting    friendly / nice    kind
P    P    P    P
easy    rewarding*    fun    lazy
P    P    P N
fun    stressful    hardworking    smart
P    N    P    P

*A rewarding job makes you feel good.

i To make adjectives stronger
C Choose the correct answers. Then practice the conversation with
My job is very hard.
a partner.
To make adjectives softer
My job is kind of hard.
A: What do you do?

B: I work for / work in a call center.

A: Really? What’s that / he like?

B: It’s kind of easy / hard. I have to answer questions eight hours a day.

A: Sounds fun / stressful. What your coworkers are / are your coworkers like?

B: They’re fun / boring. We laugh a lot together.

D Work with a partner. Complete the task.
Workers install LED lights on the side
of a building in Hanoi, Vietnam.
1. Choose three jobs from the
Vocabulary page, or think of your
own jobs.

2. Describe each job: What is it
like? What are the people like?
Where do people with these jobs
sometimes work? Write ideas in
© National Geographic Learning
your notebook.

3. Tell another pair your ideas. Do
you agree with theirs?

A doctor’s job isn’t easy,
but it’s usually rewarding.
Doctors help people.

Many doctors are
very smart.

UNIT 12 | 167

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 69 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 318 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Look at the business card with your class. What information is on it?

A common trend is to put QR codes on
business cards.

B Work on your own.
1. Think of your dream job. Make three identical business cards on three
pieces of paper.

2. Answer the questions below about your job.

Me Partner 1 Partner 2 Partner 3

What do you do?

Who do you work for?

What’s your job like?

C Imagine you are at a party. Introduce yourself to three people. Give
each person your business card. Then complete the chart in B with
information about each person you meet.

So, what do    Sounds interesting.
you do? Who do you work for?
I’m a . . . A startup called . . .
Here’s my card.

D Which person has the most interesting job? Tell the class.
© National Geographic Learning
12A GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Identify different jobs
2. Mostly, yes.
Talk about my job
3. Not yet.

168 | UNIT 12

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 70 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 319 ────────

Model this once with a volunteer. Then tell
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
students to stand up and mingle. (In a large class,
students can speak to people who sit nearby.)
WARM-UP 5 min
When you say go, they should speak to a person
Ask if anyone in class has a (print or digital)
near them following the directions on the board.
business card. It could be their own card or
As part of their discussion, they should exchange
one they got from a person, a shop, or another
business cards. Give pairs two minutes or so to
business. Ask, Whose card is it? What information
talk. When you say stop, students should say
is on it? Then ask the class, In what jobs do people
goodbye and talk to another person.
use business cards?
Have students return to their seats and look at
the business cards they received. Have them
A Look at the business card with your class. What
complete the chart in B with the information they
information is on it? 5 min
learned about their classmates.
Go over the information on the card. Point
out the QR (Quick Response) code and talk
about places that we see these (e.g., in stores,
D Which person has the most interesting job? Tell
restaurants, ads, on product packaging). Ask
the class. 5 min
what the code is used for on a business card.
Ask students, What was one of the most
interesting jobs? Have students share their
B Work on your own. 15 min
answers with the class. Close by going over any
mistakes you heard during the exercise.
Ask students to think of their dream job—
one they really want to do. Explore what this
means by writing on the board, In your dream
Diagnostics
job, maybe you . . . make a lot of money / are
Check students’ competencies as follows:
famous / help people / work for an important
• Can they identify different kinds of jobs?
company / start a company / do your hobby.
Discuss with students and elicit some common
• Can they ask what someone’s job is?
dream jobs.
• Can they explain what they do and where they
work (or want to in the future)?
Then tell students to choose their dream job and
make three business cards related to it. Each
• Can they ask about jobs using expressions
should have their name and job title and any
with like?
other information they want to include. Also tell
students to complete the first column of the chart
12A
with their information.
GOALS
Review students’ self-assessment in the
C Imagine you are at a party. Introduce yourself to
goals box. Point out to students where in the
three people. Give each person your business
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
card. Then complete the chart in B with
they can review those exercises to improve
information about each person you meet. 15 min
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
Ask students to imagine that it’s five years in the
Identify different jobs: Warm-Up video,
future. Their class is having a reunion (a party
page 162, B–D; Vocabulary, page 164, A, B,
in which former classmates gather to see how
and D; Listening, page 165, A–F; Speaking,
others are doing). Tell students they will talk to
page 166, A–F; Grammar, page 167, C and
three people at the party. Put the information
D; Active English, page 168, B–D
below on the board to guide students.
Talk about your job: Speaking, page 166,
A–F; Grammar, page 167, A–D; Active
When you talk to people at the party, do these
© National Geographic LearningEnglish, page 168, B–D
things:

1. Greet the person. (Hi . . . Great to see
you. How are you doing?)

2. Ask about the person’s job. (So, what do
you do now?)

3. Exchange business cards. (Here’s my
card.)

4. Ask three more questions about the
person’s job. (What’s that like?)

5. Say goodbye. (Nice talking to you. Let’s
keep in touch.)
Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson A | 168a

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 71 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 320 ────────

• The first idea is suggesting that you work
12B GETTING A JOB
part-time (15 hours a week) to get some
experience (i.e., to learn how to do the job).
VOCABULARY
• The second idea is suggesting that you do
an internship. Say this phrase with the class
WARM-UP 5–10 min
and go over the meaning. It usually means
Write on the board, I have a job. (now) and I want to
you work for no pay (money) so you can get
get a job. (in the future)
experience (i.e., to learn how to do the job).
Point out that have and get collocate (go together)
Have students tell a partner what they think of
with a job. Explain the difference in meaning by
these ideas and why. Then poll the class, Who
using an example from your life; for example,
thinks these are good ideas? Who doesn’t? Why?
I have a job. I’m a teacher. I want to get a different
Are there any better ideas on the board that the
job. I want to be a . . . .
class brainstormed in A?
Then poll the class, Who has a job now? For people
who raise their hands, ask, Is it a part-time job
C What are your future work goals? Complete 1–3.
or a full-time job? Put the underlined phrases on
Then tell a partner. Are your goals the same?
the board and explain them: A full-time job is 40
20 min
hours or more a week. A part-time job is usually a
Start by saying the numbers in the Word Bank
few hours a week, and a person’s schedule often
with the class. Students learned thousand in
changes. Elicit jobs that are full-time or part-time.
Unit 10, but review it here. List a few other large
numbers on the board (e.g., 50,000; 5,000,000)
and practice saying them with the class. Then
A Look up the words experience and goal in your
write a few others and have students say them
dictionary. Then answer the questions with a
with a partner.
partner. 10 min
Write the words experience and goal on the
MORE WORDS: Saying large numbers
board and say them with the class. Go over the
meaning of the words and how we use them:
1,000 one thousand
• Experience is practice doing something. I
1,500 one thousand five hundred / fifteen
have five years’ experience as a teacher.
hundred
• A goal is something you want to do in the
10,000 ten thousand
future. I want to get a new job. That’s my goal.
100,000 one hundred thousand
Make sure that students also understand the
1,000,000 one million
meaning of without in the title of the short article
in the box.
Also, explain how we talk about pay: I make
50,000 dollars a year. I want to make 5,000,000
Then have students work in pairs to answer the
won a month. Then go over 1–3 with the class.
two questions. In the box, ask them to read only
As students practice with the collocations
about the goal and the problem. Then do the
introduced in this lesson, remind them to focus
following:
on the meaning of the whole phrase (rather than
• Take ideas for question 1 from the class.
the individual parts) and to record each phrase
in their notebooks.
• Have individual students explain what the
goal and problem are in their own words.
Say, You want to get a job, but you don’t have
MORE WORDS: Collocations introduced in this
experience (now). What can you do? Take
lesson
ideas from the class and put them on the
do an internship
board.
© National Geographic Learning
get / have a (part-time ↔ full-time) job
B Now read all the information in the box in A. In
get / have experience
your opinion, are the two ideas good? Why or
make money
why not? Tell a partner. 15 min
Summarize for students again what the problem
Then have students complete 1–3 with their
is: you want to get a job, but you don’t have any
answers and share them with a partner. At the
experience. Ask, What can you do?
end, ask pairs if their goals are mostly the same
or different.
Tell students to read the two ideas in the box.
When they have finished, ask volunteers to
paraphrase each one.

169a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 72 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 321 ────────

12B GETTING A JOB

VOCABULARY

A Look up the words experience and goal in your dictionary. Then answer the questions with a partner.
1. In your city, can young people get jobs easily?
2. Read only the goal and the problem below. What is the goal? What can you do about the
problem? Think of some ideas.

How to Get a Job without Experience

Your goal: You want to get a full-time job with a company.
Your problem: You’re a student. You don’t have any work experience.
What can you do?
1. Try to get a part-time job with the company. Work there 15 hours a week
and get some experience.
2. Do an internship. You can learn a lot, but there’s usually no pay. You don’t
make money, but you get experience and meet people.

B Now read all the information in the box in A. In your opinion, are the two ideas
good? Why or why not? Tell a partner.

C What are your future work goals? Complete 1–3. Then tell a partner.
Are your goals the same?

1. I want to get .
a full-time job    a different job
a part-time job    some work experience

2. I want to work for .    WORD BANK
I want to do an internship at .    1,000 (one thousand)
1,000,000 (one million)
3. Pay: I want to make a month / a year.

I want to get a part-time
job this summer.

In the future, I want to make
© National Geographic Learning$60,000 a year.

Over 90% of companies say a person
must have work experience to get hired.

Lesson B | 169

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 73 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 322 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 10 min
Have students look at the photo
and read the caption. Then ask,
WORKING IN TWO
Where are these people? (At
the Burj Al Arab, a luxury hotel
in Dubai, in the United Arab
L A N G U A G E S
Emirates) What do they do?
(They’re hotel clerks.)
In the world today, it helps to be bilingual. When you speak two languages,
you have more choices. You can get a job in many different fields.1 In this
Then put these sentences on the
article, we look at two of them.
board.

Travel & Tourism    The jobs with the best pay are usually in
1. Today, it helps to be bilingual.
Across the world, one in every ten jobs today is management. Bilingual hotel and sales
When you speak two languages,
in travel and tourism. Millions of people work in    managers, for example, can make good money.
you have more choices.
this field, and many of them are bilingual.    Some managers have hospitality degrees.
2. Hotel clerks, like the ones at
the Burj Al Arab hotel, usually
speak English.

Ask students what the underlined
words mean. Point out that in
1, there is a clue in the second
sentence. For some students, the
word bilingual may be familiar
because it is similar in their native
language. Then point out that in
2, ones is a pronoun. (Remind
students how pronouns work: I
like coffee. I drink it every day.)
Then ask, In 2, what is “ones”
talking about? (Answer: hotel
clerks) Then point to the people
in the photo again and ask: Are
these people bilingual? (Probably
yes) Why is this important? (The
hotel has visitors from many
countries.)

A Skim and predict. Read the
title, the first paragraph, and
the headings in bold. Also look
170 | UNIT 12
quickly at any key words in the
article. Answer the questions
with a partner. 10 min
Have students read the two
C Understand words in context.
and captions. It also helps
questions. To find the answers
Find the underlined words in
to read the first sentence of
quickly, they should skim
the article. Then choose the
each paragraph and to look
(using the instructions in the
correct answers below.
quickly at any key (important)
© National Geographic Learning
directions). Give students
10 min
words in the passage. This
a couple of minutes to do
information helps students
Remind students about
this. Then have them check
make predictions.
sentences 1 and 2 in the
answers with a partner.
Warm-Up. Tell students that,
in this exercise, they have to
B Read the article and check
Skim and predict. We skim
understand the meaning of
your ideas in A. 10 min
a text to get a quick idea
the underlined words, without
of what it’s about. When we
Have students read the
using their dictionaries. Have
skim, we look at photos. We
passage to check their answers
students do 1–4 and then
also read the title, headings,
in A. Check answers as a class.

170 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 74 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 323 ────────

check answers as a class. Ask
students what information in
But many others start in different jobs (for example,
A Skim and predict. Read the title, the
the article helped them choose
hotel clerk). They get experience and then, in time,
first paragraph, and the headings in
their answers.
bold. Also look quickly at any key words
they work their way up into management.
in the article. Answer the questions with
Understand words in context.
a partner.
Healthcare
In this exercise, students are
1. What is the reading mainly about?
Today, there is a nursing shortage. Worldwide, there
The reading is mainly about jobs for bilingual speakers.
being asked to understand
are about 28 million nurses, and we need almost six
2. What jobs do you expect to read about?
pronoun referents and
million more. In big cities in a number of countries,
new vocabulary in context.
hospitals especially need bilingual nurses. Nursing
B Read the article and check your ideas
in A.
jobs are different from many travel and tourism jobs:
When readers understand
you need a degree to get one. 100
these words, they can often
C Find the underlined words in the article.
1A field is an area of work or study (business, healthcare,
comprehend a text better.
Then choose the correct answers below.
technology, etc.).
2Customer service representatives answer
• Pronouns refer back to a
1. The word them means workers / jobs
people’s questions and help with problems
in travel and tourism.
noun or noun phrase. If
online or by phone.
2. When people work their way up, they
the pronoun is singular or
start in one job and then stay in that
plural, the noun usually is,
job / move to a higher job.
too. Sometimes, though, the
3. When there is a shortage, there
Other jobs for
noun and pronoun may not
isn’t enough / is a lot of something.
bilingual speakers
match in number: There are
4. The word one means a tourism /
commercial airline pilot
nursing job.
many jobs in healthcare.
content writer or blogger
Which one pays the best?
for different websites
D Scan. Work with a partner. Answer the
questions.
• When students are reading,
customer service
sometimes it is possible to
Student A: Talk about tourism jobs.
representative,2 in
IT and healthcare
figure out the meaning of
1. How many people work in the field?
Millions of people
2. What are some of the best jobs? Why?
new words from context by
foreign service officer
(diplomat)
3. Do you need a degree to do these jobs?
looking at the sentences
just before and after the
Student B: Talk about nursing.

4. How many people do the job?
new word.
Worldwide, there are about 28 million nurses.
5. Where are bilingual nurses needed the
In big cities
most?
D Scan. Work with a partner.
Yes
6. Do you need a degree to do the job?
Answer the questions. 15 min
E With a partner, choose a job from the
In pairs, have one student
list of other jobs for bilingual speakers
talk about jobs in tourism, the
or think of your own. Learn about it
together. Then tell another pair about it.
other about jobs in nursing.
• In the job, what does a person do?
First, have students scan (read
• Is the pay good?
quickly) to find the answers to
English is the dominant second
• Do you need a degree to do the job?
their three questions and make
language for tourism in Latin
America, while Spanish is the
• Imagine you want to get the job. How
some notes. When students
dominant one for healthcare in the
can you do it?
are ready, Student A should
Ex. D: 2. Bilingual hotel and sales managers.
US. Hotel clerks, like these at the
They make good money / the pay is good.
read and answer questions
Burj Al Arab hotel in Dubai, usually
3. No. Some managers have hospitality degrees, but
speak some English.
1–3 aloud. Student B should
other people work their way up into management.
listen and take notes on what
Lesson B | 171
A says. Then Student B should
do the same with questions
4–6, and Student A should take
get the job), put some ideas
E With a partner, choose a job
notes. At the end, students
on the board: Do an internship
from the list of other jobs for
should read and check their
at . . . to get experience; Go
bilingual speakers or think
partner’s answers. At the end,
to (name of website) and . . .;
of your own. Learn about it
© National Geographic Learning
ask students if any information
Practice talking on the phone.
together. Then tell another pair
in the article was new or
When everyone is ready, put
about it. 20–30 min
surprising for them.
students into groups of four
Look at the list of “other jobs”
Scan. To scan means to review
and have each pair talk about
and brainstorm additional
a text quickly, looking for key
their job. The other pair should
ideas with the class. Then, in
words or information. This
take notes and ask questions.
pairs, have students choose
strategy is useful in real life as
At the end, ask students to tell
a job and answer the four
well as on international exams.
the class one new thing they
bulleted questions about it. To
learned.
help students answer the fourth
question (about how one can

Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson B | 171

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 75 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 324 ────────

LISTENING

To make some
extra money,
this person
walks dogs as a
side hustle.

A Predict. Look at the photo and read the caption. Then read the sentence below. Guess the answers.
A side hustle is .

a. a full-time job
c. a job you do for a company
b. a part-time job
d. often a person’s hobby    WORD BANK
A hobby is a fun activity
you do in your free time.
B Listen and check your ideas in A. Circle the correct answers. 101
Tutoring is teaching.

C With a partner, try to guess some of the answers below. Look up new words.
Popular Side Hustles
1. Beauty and Fashion    2. Tutoring and Teaching    3. Making and Selling Things
math    jewelry
• hairstylist    • or science    •
artist    music    clothing
• makeup    •    •
© National Geographic Learningshopper
• personal    • cooking    • things for the home

D Listen and complete 1–3 in C. Write a word in each blank. 102

E Answer the questions with a partner.
1. Can you think of other side hustles? Can you make money
doing these things?
My friend is a DJ on
weekends. He makes
2. What side hustles can you do with English?
good money.

172 | UNIT 12

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 76 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 325 ────────

C With a partner, try to guess some of the answers
LISTENING
below. Look up new words. 10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Tell students they will hear about three kinds of
popular side hustles. Look at the three types
Say the word hobby (in the Word Bank) with
in bold in 1–3. Say each aloud with the class
students. Give an example of one. Then ask
(Beauty and Fashion, Tutoring and Teaching,
students, What’s your hobby? Write their ideas on
Making and Selling Things). Make sure that
the board.
students understand the meaning of these
words. Then look at Beauty and Fashion. Explain
A Predict. Look at the photo and read the caption.
that the three bulleted points below this title are
Then read the sentence below. Guess the
the jobs people do. One job is hairstylist. Say the
answers. 5 min
word with the class and illustrate it with a photo
or a definition. Then tell students to look at the
Have students look at the photo. Ask, What is the
other two bulleted jobs. Ask if they can guess
woman doing? Are all of the dogs the woman’s?
what they are. Then ask students to work with a
Do you ever see people in your city doing this?
partner to guess the other jobs in categories two
Then have students read the sentence below the
and three.
direction line. Ask, What is a side hustle (do you
think)? Tell students to guess the answer(s) in
a–d.
D Listen for details. Listen and complete 1–3 in C.
Write a word in each blank. 102 10 min
Predict. Before they listen, remind students that
Tell students that when they listen, they should
they can use clues in the photo caption to help
write one word in each blank. Then play the
them guess the answers in A. For example,
audio. Pause after each type of side hustle (1,
the caption says the person walks dogs for
2, and 3) is talked about to give students time
extra money. From this, we can guess that the
to write their answers. Then play the audio
person’s job is part-time—something the person
a second time all the way through and have
does a few hours a week to make some extra
students check their answers. Go over the
money.
answers as a class.

LANGUAGE TIP: side hustle
Listen for details. In Exercise D, students are
listening for details. Remind them that they do
The term side hustle comes from a combination
not need to understand everything that is said;
of on the side + hustle. If you do work on the side,
they only need to pay close attention for the
you do it for extra money; it is not your main job.
information they need.
The word hustle (pronounced /h^sәl/) in this context
refers to a kind of active movement. Today, there are
many websites and podcasts devoted to the topic
E Answer the questions with a partner. 10–15 min
of working a side hustle.
Have students review their answers in C. Do they
know anyone with these kinds of side jobs? Then
have students work in pairs. For question 1,
B Listen and check your ideas in A. Circle the
tell students to look at the list of hobbies on the
correct answers. 101 10 min
board that you brainstormed in the Warm-Up.
Play the audio and have students check their
Can they do any of these things to make some
answers in A. At the end, have students check
extra money? Give students a few minutes to
their answers with a partner. Ask them what the
discuss the questions. Then have each pair
speaker said to help them choose their answers.
share an idea each for questions 1 and 2. Put
Then check answers as a class. Play the audio
them all on the board and vote on the best ideas.
a second time as needed. Then go over the
meaning of side hustle. Ask students if they
know anyone with this kind of part-time job.
© National Geographic Learning
TEACHING TIP: Using the audio script

Instead of telling students whether their answers
were correct or not, try this instead: Print or project
a section of the audio script you just listened to.
Have students read and check their own answers.
Then go over questions students have about
language in the script.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson B | 172a

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 77 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 326 ────────

Alternatively, you may wish to assign both
GRAMMAR
exercises in the appendix for homework. Then,
during the next class, put students in pairs and
WARM-UP 5 min
have them check their answers.
Write on the board, I can speak English. I can’t
play the guitar. Say can and can’t with the class.
Then say the complete sentences. As you say the
LANGUAGE TIP: can / can’t
sentence with can, nod your head affirmatively.
In everyday speech, can /kәn/ and can’t /kænt/ are
When you say the one with can’t, shake your head
sometimes hard to distinguish, especially when they
negatively.
are in the middle of a sentence. Focus on the vowel
sounds with students:

A Read the Unit 12, Lesson B Grammar Reference
• I kәn speak English. (The vowel in can often
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
reduces to schwa /ә/. We don’t hear it.)
the exercises below. 30 min
• I kæn(t) speak French. (The vowel in can’t is said
Turn to the Grammar Reference and look at the
clearly, but the /t/ may not be heard.)
statements in the first chart. Explain that we use
can and can’t to talk about ability. Point out that
B Read the job ad. Then complete the interview
can and can’t are the same for all persons and
questions below. Write three Yes / No questions
are followed by the base form of the verb: I / You /
and two Wh- questions with can. 10 min
She can speak French.
Ask what the man’s job in the photo is (tour
To give students practice with statements, put a
guide). Then explain to students the job ad
few phrases on the board—e.g., speak French,
is for tour guides in their city. Below the ad
play the piano, drive a car. Tell students to make
are interview questions, which are questions
sentences with can and can’t. When they say
someone asks during a job interview about your
they can do something, they should give an
experience and abilities. Review the first two
example (e.g., say something in French) or some
questions. Then have students complete the
additional information (e.g., I can play . . . on the
rest. Check answers with the class.
piano). At the end, call on a few students to say
something they can do.
C Ask a partner the interview questions in B. Is your
Focus first on Yes / No questions in the second
partner a good person for the job? 10 min
chart. Write the following statements on the
Point out the exchanges, read them aloud, and
board, and below them the questions and short
have students repeat. Then have students use
answers.
them as a model to interview their partner. At the
end, ask who got the job of tour guide and why.
1. I can speak French.
2. He can play the guitar.
D Think of a job and make a new ad with your
1. Can you speak Yes, I can. No, I can’t.
partner. Then write four interview questions with
French?
can. 15 min
2. Can he play the Yes, he ___. No, he ____.
In pairs, have students think of an interesting job
guitar?
for their classmates to apply for, along with three
skills (abilities) a person needs for the job. Then
Ask students what is different in the questions.
have them make a job ad, using the one in B as an
(The first two words change place.) Point out
example. Finally, students should write interview
how we reply with a short answer, and have
questions using the ones in B as a model.
students complete the other short answers.
Finally, have students do A in the appendix.
E Work with another pair. Complete the task.
Check answers. Then have students practice the
20 min
conversations with their partner.
© National Geographic Learning
Have one pair exchange their job ad with
Next, look at the Wh- questions in the chart.
another. After they have read each other’s ads,
Get students to notice how we add Wh- words
have them make new pairs with one student from
to a question with can. Note how we ask about
each original pair. They should interview each
a person with Who can . . .? Point out how to
other for their jobs, using their questions and
answer these questions.
taking notes. At the end, have students return to
their original partners and decide who’s the best
Then have students do B in the appendix. When
person for their job.
they’re done, have them ask and answer the
questions with a partner. Then check answers as
a class.

173a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 78 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 327 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 12, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
exercises. Then do the exercises below.

TALKING ABOUT ABILITY WITH CAN / CAN’T

Yes / No questions Can you speak French? Yes, I can. / No, I can’t.

Which languages can you speak? (I can speak) Spanish and English.
Wh- questions
Who can speak Japanese? Toshi (can).

B Read the job ad. Then complete the interview questions below. Write three Yes / No
questions and two Wh- questions with can.

We’re looking for hardworking, friendly tour guides to take groups of people to
interesting areas around the city.

Start date: early summer

Please be able to speak English, work full time, and walk for long periods.

Yes / No question    Follow-up Wh- question

1a. Can you work this summer?    1b. When can you start?
you speak
2a. Can English?    2b. How well can you speak it?
Can you work    can you work
3a. full time?    3b. What days ?
Can you walk for long periods    Possible answer: How long can you walk each day
4a. ?    4b. ?

C Ask a partner the interview questions in B. Is your partner a good person for the job?

Can you work    When can
this summer?    you start?
Yes, I can. In June.

D Think of a job and make a new ad with your partner. Then write four interview questions with can.

E Work with another pair. Complete the task.
1. Show them your job ad and questions. Read theirs.
2. Use your questions and interview one person from the other pair for your job. Your partner does
the same. Take notes on the other person’s answers.

3. Compare notes with your partner. Which person is best for your job? Why?

© National Geographic Learning
A tricycle tour guide
in Mexico City

Lesson B | 173

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 79 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 328 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Read the questions in the chart. Think about your answers.

Can you . . .

speak and write well?    play an instrument?    run a long distance?
remember information    read or write music?    play a sport well?
easily?    sing well?    dance well?
tell interesting stories?

Group 1 Total:    Group 3 Total:    Group 5 Total:

solve problems quickly?    fix or make things?    give good advice?
play chess well?    draw or paint well?    talk to new people easily?
do math quickly in your head?    take interesting photos?    understand others’ feelings?

Group 2 Total:    Group 4 Total:    Group 6 Total:

B Ask a partner the questions in A. Use Can you . . . . For your partner’s answers, write a number:
3 = Yes, I can. 2 = Yes, a little. 1 = No, I can’t.
Can you play an
instrument?
Yes, I can.
C Now add the points for each group in A and write the totals.
Then look at the jobs charts on page 216. What are good jobs for your partner?

What instrument
D Look again at the chart in A. When did your partner say, “Yes,
can you play?
I can”? Ask your partner questions about these abilities.
I can play
the violin.
E Read the paragraph. Then answer the questions with a partner.

My work goals

I like comics and I can draw well. I usually draw my own characters. I practice every day.
Right now, I’m majoring in graphic design. In the future, I want to be a video game developer.
Maybe I can do an internship first. Then I can get a full-time job and work for a big animation
company. That’s my goal.

He can draw well.
1. What can he do well?
2. What are his goals? What does he want to be?
He wants to be a video game developer and work for a big
animation company. He wants to do an internship and then get a full-time job.

F WRITING Write about your work goals. Answer the questions in E about yourself. Then exchange
papers with a partner and answer the questions in E about your partner.
© National Geographic Learning
12B GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Explain my work goals
2. Mostly, yes.
Talk about things I can and can’t do
3. Not yet.

174 | UNIT 12

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 80 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 329 ────────

F WRITING Write about your work goals. Answer
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
the questions in E about yourself. Then exchange
papers with a partner and answer the questions
WARM-UP 5 min
in E about your partner. 30 min
Have students look at the questionnaire in A and
To personalize the two questions in E, have
tell them that it’s a kind of career quiz. It can help
students change he to I and his to my. Ask
them think about jobs that are good for them. Ask
students to make some notes on how they would
students if they ever take quizzes like this online or
answer the two questions. To model this, write
in school, for example.
your own ability and goal lists on the board in
note form. Then tell students to write a list of
A Read the questions in the chart. Think about your
things they can do well and then a list of work
answers. 5 min
goals. Remind them to just write notes, not
sentences. As they do, circulate, helping with
Have students read the questions. Ask them
ideas and vocabulary.
to raise their hand if they don’t understand a
word or phrase and go over it with the class. Tell
Before students write their sentences, have them
students to think about their answers, but not to
help you write sentences using your two lists on
mark them in the chart.
the board. Then have students use their notes to
write a short paragraph of six to eight sentences
about their work goals.
B Ask a partner the questions in A. Use Can
you . . . . For your partner’s answers, write a
When students have finished, have them
number. 10 min
exchange their writing with a partner. As they
Have students work in pairs. Student A should
read, tell them to circle any errors they notice in
ask Student B the questions in the chart.
their partner’s work, though they don’t need to
Student B should close his or her book and reply.
correct anything. They should also answer the
Student A should write the number in the chart (1,
two questions in E about their partner. When
2, or 3) that corresponds to Student B’s answer.
they’re done, have students ask any questions
When they’re done, Students A and B should
they have about their partner’s work. (For more on
switch roles. Model this with a volunteer using a
peer editing, see page 146a.)
few questions so students know what to do.
Have students submit their writing to you. Make
any necessary corrections to each student’s
C Now add the points for each group in A and
work and then return it. In the next class meeting,
write the totals. Then look at the jobs charts on
review common errors that came up in students’
page 216. What are good jobs for your partner?
writing with the class.
10 min

After students determine which group(s) their
Diagnostics
partner scored highest in, poll the class. Have
Check students’ competencies as follows:
students raise their hand if they’re in a group.
Which has the most people? the fewest? Do
• Can they explain their work goals using lesson
students think the jobs identified for them would
target vocabulary?
be good for them? Why or why not? Have
• Can they make statements with can and can’t to
students tell a partner.
talk about their abilities?
• Can they ask and answer questions with can
D Look again at the chart in A. When did your
and can’t?
partner say, “Yes, I can”? Ask your partner
questions about these abilities. 15 min
12B
Point out the example in the speech bubbles.
GOALS
Explain that not all follow-up questions have
Review students’ self-assessment in the
to use can. When pairs have finished, call on
© National Geographic Learning
goals box. Point out to students where in the
students to tell you something they learned about
unit they learned these skills. Explain that
their partner.
they can review those exercises to improve
(if they rated their ability below Yes, I can).
E Read the paragraph. Then answer the questions
Explain your work goals: Vocabulary,
with a partner. 5–10 min
page 169, C; Active English, page 174,
E and F
Read the title of the paragraph aloud (My work
goals) and have students read the two questions.
Talk about things you can and can’t do:
Then tell them to read the paragraph, underline
Listening, page 172, E; Grammar, page 173,
the answers, and go over these with a partner.
A–E; Active English, page 174, A–F
Check answers as a class.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson B | 174a

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 81 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 330 ────────

B In the video, Corey Arnold answers questions 1–3.
GLOBAL VOICES
Guess his two answers to each question. Then
watch the video and check your ideas. 15 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Read the directions. Then have students read the
Write on the board, I’m a freelancer. = I work for
three questions and answers. Say new vocabulary
myself. Say the word freelancer with the class and
with students: photographer, fisherman,
have students read the definition in the Word Bank.
dangerous. Have students guess what they think
Ask students to name some jobs in which people
Corey’s two answers will be for each question.
are freelancers.

Then play the video and tell students to circle the
ABOUT THE VIDEO
two answers they hear Corey Arnold say. Pause
after he answers each question so students have
In the video, National Geographic Explorer
time to choose their answers. At the end, have
Corey Arnold talks about his work as a professional
students compare their answers with a partner.
photographer and a commercial fisherman. He
Then check answers as a class. To help students
explains what he does and what the jobs are like.
better understand things Arnold says in the
video, introduce the extra words boat, captain,
ABOUT THE SPEAKER
gallery, and photograph (verb).
National Geographic Explorer Corey Arnold is
a documentary and fine art photographer. He is
C What do you think of Corey’s job? What is it like?
also a commercial fisherman. In his work as a
Is it interesting to you? Why or why not? Tell a
photographer, Arnold often focuses on people’s
partner. 10 min
relationship with nature, particularly in the Arctic
wilderness. As a fisherman, he is the captain of a
Have students describe Corey Arnold’s job to
commercial fishing vessel that works on the Bering
a partner and say what they think of it. Poll the
Sea in Alaska.
class: Who thinks his job is interesting? Who
doesn’t? Why?

A Look at the photo and read the caption. Where
D In your notebook, answer the questions in B.
does Corey Arnold work? What do you know
You can talk about yourself or take the role of a
about these places? Tell a partner. 5 min
famous person. 15 min
Point to the man in the photo and say, This is
Tell students to answer the three questions in
Corey Arnold. Explain that he talks about his job
B. They can talk about themselves (for more
in the video. Then ask students, In this photo,
practice), they can take the identity of a famous
where are the men? They might answer that they
person, or they can talk about someone they
are on a boat, or in Alaska or the Arctic. Ask
know (e.g., a family member). Students can also
students if they know anything about these two
explore the idea that many people (like Corey
places. If not, share information with the class,
Arnold) do more than one job. In their answers to
or have students do an online search and report
questions 1–3, they can talk about both jobs.
back to the class.
Have students write sentences in their notebook
and then practice answering the questions
CULTURE TIP: The Arctic and the Bering Sea
quietly on their own.
• The northern parts of eight countries are in
the Arctic Circle: Canada, Finland, Greenland,
Iceland, Norway, Russia (Siberia), Sweden, and
E Work with a partner. Complete the task. 10–20 min
the US state of Alaska.
When you say go, Student A should ask
• In the winter, it’s very dark and cold. In the
Student B the three questions. Student B should
summer, the sun shines for 24 hours a day.
speak as fluently as possible without using
notes. At the end, Student A should ask two
• The Arctic is rich in wildlife (reindeer, grizzly and
follow-up questions. Give students a minute or
© National Geographic Learning
polar bears, many bird species, etc.).
so to do this. Then A and B should swap roles.
• The Bering Sea borders the Arctic, and
For additional fluency-building practice, have
commercial fishing is big business in this
students pair up with a different partner and
region—especially for king crab, salmon, and
repeat the steps above. At the end, review errors
other fish.
with the class.

175a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson B

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 82 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 331 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A Look at the photo and read the caption. Where does Corey Arnold work? What do you know about
these places? Tell a partner.
Corey Arnold works in Alaska and the Arctic.

B In the video, Corey Arnold answers questions 1–3. Guess his two
WORD BANK
answers to each question. Then watch the video and check your ideas.
A freelancer works for themself
1. What do you do?
and does different jobs.
a. I’m a photographer.
An organization is a large
company.
b. I’m a fisherman.
c. I’m a tour guide.
2. Who do you work for?
a. my family’s company
b. myself
c. many different companies
3. What’s your job like?
a. Busy. I travel often.
b. It’s kind of boring sometimes.
c. It can be difficult and dangerous.

C What do you think of Corey’s job? What is it like? Is it interesting to you? Why or why not? Tell a partner.

D In your notebook, answer the questions in B. You can talk about yourself or take the role of a
famous person.

E Work with a partner. Complete the task.
1. Student A: Ask your partner questions 1–3. At the end, ask
two follow-up questions to learn more.

Student B: Close your notebook and answer the questions.

2. Switch roles and repeat step 1.

© National Geographic Learning

National Geographic Explorer Corey Arnold
often works in Alaska and the Arctic.

Lesson B | 175

WLTB_INT_U12_ptg01.indd 83 22/05/21 6:21 PM

──────── Page 332 ────────

REAL WORLD LINK THE NEXT BIG THING

He Liangcai rides his
motorized suitcase around
Changsha, China.

A Read about an American TV show below. Then answer the questions
WORD BANK
with a partner.
product something
people buy
Shark Tank is a popular TV show. On it, there are two types of
best-selling making a lot
of money
people: inventors and sharks. The inventors are people with ideas
for new and interesting products. On the show, they explain their
ideas to a group of experienced businesspeople (the sharks).

The sharks give money to the inventors with the best ideas. Then
these inventors can make their products and sell them. When the
products make money, the sharks do, too.

1. On the show, who are the inventors? What is their goal?
People with ideas for new and interesting products; to get money to make and sell their products.
2. Who are the sharks? What do they do?
Experienced businesspeople; give money to the inventors with the best ideas.© National Geographic Learning
3. Look at the photo. Is it a good product? Why or why not?
Answers will vary.

B Read the sentence below and guess the answers with a partner. Then listen and check your ideas.
Are you surprised? 103

Two of the best-selling products ever on Shark Tank are and .
No way! The answers
a. a chair for the office c. a kitchen sponge
are . . .
b. socks d. a pair of sneakers

176

WLTB_INT_RWL04_ptg01.indd 2 22/05/21 5:59 PM

──────── Page 333 ────────

C Write the two products from B on the lines.
REAL WORLD LINK:
Then read 1–6. Listen and write your answers.
THE NEXT BIG THING,
104 15 min
Units 10–12
Give students time to read through the
information about Product 1 and Product 2. Ask
WARM-UP 5–10 min
them to predict what type of word is missing in
Write product on the board. Check that everyone
each blank (e.g., adjectives and prices). They
understands this word and clarify that it refers to
could also try to guess the missing word from
any item that you buy in a store. Ask students to
context before listening. Play the audio at least
write down the names of five products they bought
twice, as listening and writing the exact word will
this week (or last). Then put students in pairs and
be a challenge for many students at this level.
ask them to compare their lists of products. Did they
buy anything similar? Afterwards, ask the pairs to
D Check your answers in C with a partner. Are they
report back on any product that they both bought.
good products? Why or why not? 5 min
Have students compare their answers in C with
CULTURE TIP: Shark Tank
a partner. If necessary, play the audio one more
time and pause the audio after each answer.
Some of your students might be familiar with the TV
Write the answers on the board so everyone can
show Shark Tank described in the text because the
check their spelling. Then have students discuss
same TV show appears in other countries, but with
if the products are good or not.
different names. In some countries it has also been
called Dragon’s Den, The Tigers of Money, and
Lion’s Den.
NOTES

A Read about an American TV show below. Then
answer the questions with a partner. 5–10 min
Ask students to look at the photo and read the
caption. Then have students read the text and
answer the questions with a partner. Give them
plenty of time to prepare their answers to item 3
so they can express their opinions. Monitor their
reading and pair work so that students can ask
you about any unknown (or forgotten) vocabulary
in the text.

TEACHING TIP: Asking questions

When you ask questions, allow time for students to
think of an answer and decide what English words
they need before they speak. For a question like
Is it a good product? Why or why not? there isn’t a
correct answer. We want students’ opinions, so they
will need longer to think of an answer and prepare
their words.

B Read the sentence below and guess the answers
with a partner. Then listen and check your ideas.
Are you surprised? 103 10 min
© National Geographic Learning
Discuss as a class the meaning of the four
items; if necessary, show a picture of them
or define a kitchen sponge by saying it’s a
product for cleaning dishes. Then have students
guess which are the two best-selling products
before listening to the first part of the audio and
checking their answers.

Teacher’s Book UNITS 10–12 | 176a

WLTB_INT_RWL04_ptg01.indd 3 22/05/21 5:59 PM

──────── Page 334 ────────

TEACHING OPTION
Whichever option students choose, you
might want to give them time to work on their
To prepare students for the next stage of the lesson,
presentations for homework, before the next
you could try to think of a new product together, as
class. Remind them of the goal in the box,
a class. Write these three questions on the board:
which tells them to convince people to buy their
product. Tell them that the presentation should
What’s the problem with the old product?
be no longer than five minutes.
How is the new product better?

G Present your product and learn about others.
How much is it?
Follow the steps. 20–30 min
Invite any student to suggest a product they use
Join the pairs into groups of four and have them
and say what the problem with it is. Write their
take turns presenting their work from F. Set a
suggestion after the first question. Then ask the
time limit of five minutes for each presentation. If
class to think of a new product that is better and
any students have made a video, this could be
to say why. Write their ideas next to the second
shown to the other group. Otherwise, students
question. Finally, discuss what price the new
can present their ad in Option 1 or the display
product will be. One possible set of answers might
board in Option 3. Make sure the other students
be: It’s an old, traditional alarm clock. The new
listen carefully and ask questions at the end.
product is digital, with a rechargeable battery. It
Have students repeat the process two more
costs $30. The aim is to give students ideas in
times by re-presenting their product and learning
preparation for E.
about two more products. In between each
presentation, you might want to give general
feedback and suggestions to certain pairs on
E With a partner, design your own product. Choose
how to improve for the next time.
an idea from the box. Then answer questions 1–3
in your notebook. 20 min
H Look at the three products you learned about
Put students into pairs or small groups of three.
in G. You can give money to one. Complete the
Have them choose a category from the box,
sentence and tell the class. Which product is the
or they can choose their own idea. Next, have
most popular? 5 min
students make notes about the product to
answer the questions in items 2 and 3. Remind
Working alone, students should complete the
them to think about why their new product is
sentence and write which one they would invest
better than an old product.
in. Take a vote and find out which pair had the
most popular product. Remind students to use
the example stem provided.
TEACHING TIP: Note-taking in pairs and groups

With the type of discussion that students have in
E, make sure that at least one student is in charge
NOTES
of note-taking and writing down ideas. If students
don’t do this, they often struggle in the stages that
follow.

F You Choose Choose an option to present your
product. 30–40 min
If students choose Option 1, it will be useful for
them to have large pieces of flipchart paper or
poster paper so they can draw a large picture
with notes about their product to show other
people. With Option 2, students could create
© National Geographic Learning
an ad using the video mode on a smartphone
or tablet. Option 3 refers to a 3-panel display
board. This means a typical display board where
students can pin information and pictures about
their product; note that any type of notice board
will do and if you are teaching online, similar
online display tools such as Padlet or Google
Jamboard will also work well for this exercise.

177a | Teacher’s Book UNITS 10–12

WLTB_INT_RWL04_ptg01.indd 4 22/05/21 5:59 PM

──────── Page 335 ────────

UNITS 10–12
C Write the two products from B on the lines. Then read 1–6. Listen and write your answers. 104
socks    a kitchen sponge
Product 2:
Product 1:

1. What’s the problem with the old product?
4. What’s the problem with the old product?
clean
They’re uncomfortable: They’re
It doesn’t well
loose    tight    cold
too or too .
in water. It’s too
big
to hold.
2. What’s the new product like?
They’re very comfortable.
5. What’s the new product like?
long    cold
They last a time.
It changes in water,
many    cleans
They come in colors.
so it better. It’s
small
, so it’s comfortable to
3. How much are they?
long
hold. It lasts a time.
18
$ or more for a casual
pair
6. How much is it?
5
$ for a pack of four

D Check your answers in C with a partner. Are they good products? Why or why not?

E With a partner, design your own product. Choose an idea from the box.
Your product can be . . .
Then answer questions 1–3 in your notebook.
• a type of clothing.
1. Is your product . . .
• for the home.
• a type of clothing? What kind?
• for the workplace.
• for a room in the house? Which one?
• your own idea.
• something people use at work? Which job?
2. Describe your product: What does it do? How can it help people?
Are there similar products? If yes, how is yours better?

3. How much is it? Can most people buy it?

F You Choose Choose an option to present your product.
Your goal: You
Option 1: Draw a picture of your product. Write a short ad to explain it.
want people to like
your product! You
Option 2: Make a video. Show and explain your product.
have five minutes to
Option 3: Make a 3-panel display board. Show and explain your product.
present it.

G Present your product and learn about others. Follow the steps.
1. Join another pair. Present your product.
Is your closet messy? With our product . . .

2. When you listen, answer questions 1–3 in E in your
Do you work in an office? With our
© National Geographic Learning
notebook about the other pair’s product. You can
product, you can exercise at your desk.
also ask questions.

3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 with two other pairs.

H Look at the three products you learned about in G. You can give money to one. Complete the
sentence and tell the class. Which product is the most popular?

I want to give my money to . . .

177

WLTB_INT_RWL04_ptg01.indd 5 22/05/21 5:59 PM

──────── Page 336 ────────

LANGUAGE SUMMARIES

UNIT 1: INTRODUCTIONS
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
first name    email address
be into (something)
last name    nickname
favorite
letters of the alphabet: numbers 0–10: zero,
movie
A B C D E F G H I J    one, two, three, four,
music (classical, dance,
K L M N O P Q R S    five, six, seven, eight,
hip-hop / rap, pop)
T U V W X Y Z    nine, ten
singer / band
phone number
sport (baseball, basketball, soccer,
swimming)
@ = at
sports team / player
.com = dot com
TV show
.edu = dot e-d-u

Speaking Strategy
Introducing yourself
Hi. What’s your name?
My name is . . . / I’m . . .
(It’s) nice to meet you.
(It’s) nice to meet you, too.

UNIT 2: COUNTRIES
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
(capital) city beautiful
country
nationality
big / large ↔ small
busy
Australia → Australian
crowded
Brazil → Brazilian
exciting
China → Chinese
famous
Japan → Japanese
friendly
Korea → Korean
fun
Mexico → Mexican
interesting ↔ boring
Peru → Peruvian
old ↔ new
Portugal → Portuguese
popular
Spain → Spanish
relaxing
© National Geographic Learning
Turkey → Turkish
tall
the United Kingdom (the UK) → British
wonderful
the United States (the US) → American

Speaking Strategy
Asking where someone is from
Where are you from?    Really? Where exactly?
(I’m from) Japan.    (I’m from) a small town near Tokyo.
Really? Which city?    Are you from Colombia?
(I’m from) Tokyo.    Yes, I am. / No, I’m from Peru.

178 | Language Summaries

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 178 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 337 ────────

UNIT 3: POSSESSIONS
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
backpack
birthday    clean ↔ messy
gift card
expensive    easy ↔ hard
expensive ↔ cheap
headphones
good ↔ bad
laptop
important ↔ unimportant
movie tickets
sunglasses
wallet
watch

Speaking Strategy
Giving and replying to thanks
Saying Thank You    Replies
Thank you very much.    You’re welcome.
Thank you.    My pleasure.
Thanks a lot.    Sure, no problem.
Thanks.    You bet.

© National Geographic Learning

Language Summaries | 179

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 179 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 338 ────────

UNIT 4: ACTIVITIES
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
do homework    art
drink (soda)
run    business
eat (pizza)
wait for (a person, a bus)
exercise
engineering
go (to school)
graphic design
listen (to music)
history
shop
hospitality
study (for a test)
information technology (IT)
talk (on the phone)
law
text (a friend)
math
watch (TV)
nursing
science

go to (college)
major in (art / math)
plan to (do something)
prepare for
study (business / nursing)
take a(n) . . . class

Speaking Strategy
Greeting people and asking how they are
Positive response    Negative response
A: Hi, . . . How are you doing?    A: Hi, . . . How are you doing?
B: Fine. / OK. / All right. / Pretty good.    B: So-so.
How about you?    A: Yeah? What’s wrong?
A: I’m fine.    B: I’m waiting for the bus. It’s late!

© National Geographic Learning

180 | Language Summaries

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 180 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 339 ────────

UNIT 5: FOOD
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
beans
snack    energy
bread
good for you ↔ bad for you
breakfast    healthy ↔ unhealthy
burger
lunch    high in
↔ low in (sugar)
cheese
dinner
meals
(fried) chicken
coffee
spicy    taste (good / bad)
fries
fruit
juice
onions
pasta
(baked) potato
rice
(spinach) salad
(tuna fish) sandwich
soda
(vegetable) soup
steak
tea
tomato (sauce)
water

Speaking Strategy
Talking about likes and dislikes
Do you like Indian food?
I love it!
Yeah, I like it.
It’s OK, but it’s not my favorite.
Not really.

© National Geographic Learning

Language Summaries | 181

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 181 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 340 ────────

UNIT 6: RELATIONSHIPS
LESSON A LESSON B
24 twenty-four
10 ten
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
25 twenty-five
11 eleven
aunt
(be / get) married
26 twenty-six
12 twelve
brother
(be) seeing someone
27 twenty-seven
13 thirteen
cousin
(be) single
28 twenty-eight
14 fourteen
daughter
29 twenty-nine
15 fifteen
boyfriend
father / dad
30 thirty
16 sixteen
couple
grandfather
40 forty
17 seventeen
girlfriend
grandmother
50 fifty
18 eighteen
grandparents
meet (someone)
60 sixty
19 nineteen
husband – wife
70 seventy
20 twenty
mother / mom
in (your) twenties
80 eighty
21 twenty-one
nephew – niece
90 ninety
22 twenty-two
parents
100 one hundred
23 twenty-three
sister
son
grandma
uncle
older ↔ younger (brother, sister)
look alike

stepmother

Speaking Strategy
Talking about age
How old is your sister?
(She’s) 18.
How old are you?
(I’m) 22.
Are you the same age?
Yes, we’re both 20.
No, he’s older. He’s 24.
No, he’s younger. He’s 18.

© National Geographic Learning

182 | Language Summaries

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 182 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 341 ────────

UNIT 7: TIME
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
in the morning    go
one o’clock
~ afternoon    biking
one-fifteen / a quarter past one
~ evening
one thirty / half past one
driving
one forty-five / a quarter to two
running

early ↔ late
go for
a bike ride
wake up
a drive
take a shower
a run
get dressed
leave home
go to
go to school
a concert
start (class)
a friend’s house
finish (class)
the movies
go home
weekend
go to bed

Speaking Strategy
Making and responding to suggestions
Making a suggestion    Saying yes    Saying no politely
Let’s go to the park.    (That’s a) good idea.    I don’t really like
We could see a movie.    (That’s a) great idea.    action movies.
How about an action movie?    (That) sounds good.

© National Geographic Learning

Language Summaries | 183

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 183 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 342 ────────

UNIT 8: SPECIAL OCCASIONS
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
January
attend
February
celebrate
March
compete
April
event
May
every (day / week / month / year)
June
festival
July
parade
August
perform
September
take place
October
traditional
November
December

winter
spring
summer
fall

week
month
year

Speaking Strategy
Saying you know or don’t know something
Is today a holiday?
Yes, it is. / No, it isn’t. (certain)
Maybe. (less certain)
I’m not sure. (not certain at all)
I don’t know. (don’t know)
I have no idea.

© National Geographic Learning

184 | Language Summaries

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 184 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 343 ────────

UNIT 9: TOGETHER
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
chore
friend
loud
pay the rent
clean (a room)
best ~
do the dishes
close ~
always
do the laundry
good ~
usually
make breakfast / dinner
old ~    remember ↔ forget
often
make your bed
sometimes
friendship
take out the garbage
hardly ever
never
get along
do homework
hang out
make a list
keep in touch
make noise
make friends

Speaking Strategy
Apologizing
Making an apology    Responding to an apology
(I’m) sorry.    No problem.
(I’m) sorry about that.    That’s OK / all right.
I’m really sorry. [stronger]    Don’t worry about it.

UNIT 10: HOME
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
ground floor
apartment
color
furniture
live in (an apartment)
space
bathroom
live on (the third) floor
black
bathtub
(dark / light) blue
bed
AC (air conditioning)
brown
bedroom
elevator
gray
chair
microwave (oven)
green
closet
refrigerator
orange
dining area
rent
pink
kitchen
stairs
up ↔ down
purple
living room
window
red
shower
white
sofa
(bright) yellow
table

happy ↔ unhappy, sad
relaxed ↔ nervous,
© National Geographic Learning
uncomfortable

Speaking Strategy
Showing surprise
There’s no elevator, and I’m on the fifth floor. Really? / Are you serious?
You’re kidding. / No way.

Language Summaries | 185

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 185 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 344 ────────

UNIT 11: CLOTHING
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
blouse
a pair of    baggy / loose ↔ fitted / tight    match (v)
~ shoes    casual ↔ dressy
boots
~ shorts    dress up
dress
~ sunglasses    style
gloves
stylish
hat
heels
jacket
jeans
pants
sandals
scarf
shorts
skirt
sneakers
socks
suit
T-shirt
tie
uniform

Speaking Strategy
Saying what you want
I’m looking for a gift for my sister.

Asking for and giving prices
How much are they?
They’re 60 euros.
OK, I’ll think about it.

How much is the T-shirt?
It’s 19 euros.
I’ll take it.

© National Geographic Learning

186 | Language Summaries

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 186 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 345 ────────

UNIT 12: JOBS
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
chef
do an internship
cook
get a (part-time ↔ full-time) job
get / have experience
dentist
goal
doctor
make money
engineer
pay
flight attendant
hotel desk clerk
1,000 (one thousand)
IT manager
1,000,000 (one million)
lawyer
manager
nurse
police officer
receptionist
salesperson
security guard
server (waiter / waitress)
software developer
tour guide

Speaking Strategy
Talking about jobs
What do you do?
I’m a game developer / an office manager.
I work in a hotel / a bank / a cafe.
I work for Apple / Toyota.

© National Geographic Learning

Language Summaries | 187

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 187 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 346 ────────

GRAMMAR REFERENCE

1 INTRODUCTIONS
LESSON A

i In speaking, use
SUBJECT PRONOUNS WITH BE
contractions.
Pronoun Be Contractions with be
I am    I am = I’m
You are a student.    you are = you’re
He / She is he is = he’s / she is = she’s
We / They are students. we are = we’re / they are = they’re
It is a book. it is = it’s

POSSESSIVE ADJECTIVES WITH BE

Possessive adjective Be
My
Your
last name is Cruz.
His / Her
Our / Their
Its title is World Link.

A Complete each sentence with the correct form of the verb be.
is are
1. She a teacher. 3. You my classmate.
is    am
2. It a book. 4. I at school.

B Look at the underlined words. Then write the correct subject pronoun.
3. Sofia is at school.
1. Mei and Beto are here.
They    She
is at school.
are here.

4. Carlos is at home.
2. My book is at home.
He
It    is at home.
is at home.

C Complete the sentences with the correct subject pronoun or possessive adjective.
He    His
1. is a teacher. name is Mr. Porter.
They    Their
2. are my classmates. names are Beto and Mei.
© National Geographic LearningOur
3. We’re classmates. names are Alma and Min.
She    Her
4. is a teacher. name is Ms. Garcia.

1. I’m a student.
D Rewrite each sentence in your notebook. Use a contraction.
2. You’re my classmate.
1. I am a student. 3. She is a teacher. 5. They are my classmates.
3. She’s a teacher.
4. It’s my nickname.
2. You are my classmate. 4. It is my nickname. 6. He is a student.
5. They’re my
classmates.
6. He’s a student.

188 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 188 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 347 ────────

LESSON B

YES / NO QUESTIONS WITH BE SHORT ANSWERS

Be Pronoun Affirmative Negative
Am I in this class? Yes, you are. No, you’re not.* / No, you aren’t.
Are you Yes, I am. No, I’m not.
a student?
Is he / she Yes, he / she is. No, he’s not.* / No, she isn’t.
Is it your favorite team? Yes, it is. No, it’s not.* / No, it isn’t.
Are we in this class? Yes, we are. No, we’re not.* / No, we aren’t.
Are they pop singers? Yes, they are. No, they’re not.* / No, they aren’t.

*In spoken English, this negative form is more common.

A Read each question. Choose the correct answer.
1. Is your name Alma? a. No, it’s not. b. No, I’m not.
2. Are you from Canada? a. No, you’re not. b. No, I’m not.
3. Is Ms. Kim the teacher? a. Yes, she is. b. Yes, it is.
4. Are you friends with Jane? a. Yes, I am. b. Yes, I’m friends.
5. Am I late for class? a. No, it’s not. b. No, you aren’t.
6. Are Mei and Beto your classmates? a. Yes, we are. b. No, they’re not.

Haru Tanaka His friends Sofia and Milo

B Look at the photos above. Complete the questions and answers.
1. Is his last name Sato? No , it ’s not / isn’t . It’s Tanaka.

2. Is baseball his favorite sport? No, it’s not . Soccer    is his favorite.
3. Are Sofia and Milo his friends? Yes, they are .
4. Are they all students? No, they’re not / . Haru is a soccer player.
© National Geographic Learningthey aren’t
5. Is    Sofia Haru’s girlfriend? No , she’s not /. They’re just friends.
she isn’t
6. Are you friends with Haru? Yes, I am    .

Grammar Reference | 189

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 189 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 348 ────────

2 COUNTRIES
LESSON A

QUESTIONS WITH WHO ANSWERS

he / she? He’s / She’s my classmate.
is
Who asks
’s    from Mexico?    Tomas (is).
Who    with you? about people.
you?    (I’m) Sara.
are
they?    (They’re) my friends.

QUESTIONS WITH WHERE ANSWERS
at school / work / home.    Where asks
Where are you / they? (I’m / We’re / They’re)
at the beach / a museum. about a place.
Use at + a place.
Nor? (She’s) in London / at her hotel.
is    Use in / from + a
Where ’s Machu Picchu? (It’s) in Peru.    city or country.
Ryan from? (He’s from) Australia.

A Complete the questions and answers with who, where, in, or at and information
from the chart.

Name Hometown Where is he or she now?
Emma ♀ Berlin, Germany on vacation / Mexico
Hisham ♂ Rabat, Morocco on vacation / Italy
Jun ♂ Beijing, China Mei’s house
Mei ♀ Beijing, China home
Tim ♂ Toronto, Canada work / New York City

Who
1. is from Rabat? Hisham is.
Where in
2. ’s Rabat? It’s Morocco.
on vacation / in Italy / on vacation in Italy / in Italy on vacation
3. Where is Hisham now? He’s .
Where from Berlin, Germany
4. is Emma from? She’s .
in Tim is
5. Who’s the US now? .
Where at in
6. exactly is Tim? He’s work New York City.
at Mei’s house
7. Where are Mei and Jun? They’re .
Emma and Hisham are
8. Who’s on vacation now? .

B Write three new who or where questions about the information in the chart.
Ask a partner the questions.
© National Geographic Learning

190 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 190 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 349 ────────

LESSON B

ADJECTIVES WITH BE
Be Adjective
Copacabana is relaxing. Adjectives are words that describe
The penguins are cute.    nouns.
Adjectives follow be.
Carnival is fun and loud.    Use and to join two adjectives.

Be Adjective Noun
It is a popular place. Adjectives can come before nouns.
There are big stadiums. Use a or an before singular nouns.

A Circle the adjectives and underline the nouns.
1. It’s a crowded place.
2. Are you a busy person?
3. They are tall and beautiful.
4. She’s a friendly teacher.
5. The building is big and old.
6. Our small town is famous for good food.

B Put the words in parentheses into the sentences. Write the new sentences.
1. He’s English teacher. (an)
He's an English teacher.

2. The restaurant is small friendly. (and)
The restaurant is small and friendly.

3. The student is in our class. (new)
The new student is in our class. / The student is in our new class.

4. It’s a city of five million people. (large)
It's a large city of five million people.

5. There’s a view from the mountain. (wonderful)
There's a wonderful view from the mountain.

6. It’s a big city with the feeling of a town. (small)
It's a big city with the feeling of a small town.

© National Geographic Learning

Grammar Reference | 191

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 191 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 350 ────────

3 POSSESSIONS
LESSON A

SINGULAR AND PLURAL COUNT NOUNS

It’s an ID card. Count nouns are singular (= one thing) or plural
I’m a student.    (= two or more things).
There are many students here. Use a or an before singular count nouns only.

When the singular noun begins with a consonant sound, use a.
When the singular noun begins with a vowel sound, use an.

SPELLING RULES FOR FORMING PLURAL NOUNS

Most plural nouns are formed by adding s: camera → cameras pen → pens
For nouns ending in a vowel + y add s: boy → boys
For nouns ending in a consonant + y,
drop the y and add ies: dictionary → dictionaries
For nouns ending in a vowel + o add s: radio → radios
For nouns ending in a consonant + o,
add s with some nouns and es with others: photo → photos potato → potatoes
For nouns ending in ch, sh, ss, or x, add es: class → classes
For nouns ending in f / fe, change it to ve + s: knife → knives

A Use the words in the box to complete the sentences. In your notebook, write a sentence with each
word. (Use a or an for singular words.) Then practice saying the sentences.

address 1 city 2 eraser 1 key 2 phone 1 umbrella 1
backpack 2 dictionary 2 ID card 1 laptop 1 photo 2 watch 2

an address backpacks 1. an eraser, an ID card, a laptop, a phone, an umbrella
1. It’s . 2. They’re .
2. cities, dictionaries, keys, photos, watches

B Complete the sentences with the singular or plural forms of the nouns in parentheses. Then ask
and answer the questions with a partner.

1. What’s in your backpack?
a phone (phone), a laptop (laptop), and two bus passes    (bus pass)

2. What’s in your wallet?
an ID card (ID card), two photos (photo), and two credit cards    (credit card)

3. What’s on your desk?
three pens (pen), an eraser (eraser), and two dictionaries    (dictionary)

© National Geographic Learning

192 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 192 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 351 ────────

LESSON B

THIS / THAT / THESE / THOSE

Near Not near
1 This is my ID card.    2 A: Who’s that over there?
B: That’s Marie Kondo.
Singular
1 A: Bill, this is my friend Nadia.
B: Hi, Nadia. Nice to meet you.    2 That’s an expensive watch!
3 These headphones are really good.    4 A: Are those your photos?
B: Yes, they are.
Plural
3 A: These are my parents.
B: It’s nice to meet you, Mr. and Mrs. Kim.
1 Use this to talk about a person or a thing near you. Use this is on the phone or to introduce a person.
2 Use that to talk about a person or a thing that is not near you.
3 Use these to talk about two or more people or things near you. Use these to introduce two or
more people.
4 Use those to talk about two or more people or things that are not near you.

A Look at the photos. Complete the sentences with this, that, these, or those.

1. Is this    your    2. Are these    your    3. A: Who’s that    ?
photo?    keys?    B: My teacher.

4. Eva, this    is Bill. 5. Are those    your    6. Hello, this    is Pat.
sunglasses over there?

B Add a follow-up sentence or response to 1–6 in A. Then practice the conversations with a partner.
Possible answers:
1. Is this your laptop?    4. Eva, this is Bill.
Yes, it is. / No, it isn’t. / No, it’s not.    It’s nice to meet you, Bill.
2. Are these your keys?    5. Are those your sunglasses over there?
© National Geographic LearningYes, they are. / No, they aren’t. / No, they’re not. Yes, they are. / No, they aren’t. / No, they’re not.
3. Who’s that?    6. Hello, this is Pat.
My teacher. She’s really nice.    Hi, Pat. How are you?

Grammar Reference | 193

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 193 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 352 ────────

4 ACTIVITIES
LESSON A

THE PRESENT CONTINUOUS: AFFIRMATIVE AND NEGATIVE STATEMENTS
Spelling
watch → watching
Subject + be Verb + -ing
exercise → exercising
I’m / You’re / He’s / She’s / We’re / They’re (not) watching TV.
shop → shopping
The present continuous: subject + am / is / are + verb + -ing

Use the present continuous to talk about actions happening right now.
Luis / He is watching TV.
Luis / He is not doing his homework.

In speaking, use contractions.
He’s watching TV.
He’s not doing his homework. / He isn’t doing his homework.

YES / NO AND WH- QUESTIONS

Question Word Be Verb + -ing Short Answers
Are you    Yes, I am. / No, I’m not.
Is he studying?    Yes, he is. / No, he’s not. / No, he isn’t.
Are they Yes, they are. / No, they’re not. / No, they aren’t.
are you (I’m) watching TV.
What doing?
is he (He’s) watching TV.
are you (I’m texting) my friend.
Who texting?
is he (He’s texting) his friend.

A Make sentences with the present continuous. Use contractions when possible.
I’m doing
1. (I / do) my homework right now.
Jon’s watching
2. (Jon / watch) TV with his friends.
Erika and Martin are
3. (Erika and Martin / study) for a test.
studying
We’re using
4. (We / use) this book in our English class.
I’m not drinking
5. (I / not / drink) coffee. This is tea.
He’s not shopping /    He’s buying
6. (He / not shop) for a new laptop. (He / buy) a new phone.
He isn’t shopping

B Complete each conversation. Use contractions when possible.
Are you studying
1. A: (you / study) for the test?
I’m not / we’re not / we aren’t
B: No, .
What are you doing
A: (what / do)?
I’m watching / We’re watching
B: (watch) TV.
© National Geographic Learning
Is Nadia exercising
2. A: (Nadia / exercise) at the gym?
she’s not / she isn’t
B: No, .
What is she doing
A: (what / do)?
She’s running
B: (run) in the park.
Are Oscar and Fiona going
3. A: (Oscar and Fiona / go) to school now?
they’re not / they aren’t
B: No, .
Where are they going
A: (where / go)?
They’re going
B: (go) to a soccer game.

194 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 194 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 353 ────────

LESSON B

THE PRESENT CONTINUOUS: EXTENDED TIME
1 A: What are you doing?
B: I’m studying for a test right now / at the moment.

2 A: Are you taking any classes online this term?
B: Yes, I’m taking an art history class online.

A: What are you doing these days?
B: I’m preparing for the university entrance exam.
Use the present continuous to talk about . . .
1 actions happening right now, at the moment of speaking.
2 actions happening for a period of time in the present
(this term, these days).

A Maiko is traveling in Ecuador for a month. Read her email to a friend. Complete the sentences with
the present continuous. Use contractions when possible.

Hi Kira,

I’m writing
(1.) (I / write)

to you from Ecuador. Today,
our group is visiting /
(2.) (our group / visit)
our group’s visiting
Quito, the capital city. It’s really beautiful.

Right now, (3.) (we / eat)
we’re eating    Need hi-res WL4e_Intro_
SB_2099_EM_09_P>
lunch. The food here is so good!

I’m enjoying
(4.) (I / enjoy)

this program. This week,
we’re learning
(5.) (we / learn)

about the rainforest and the animals in
I’m also using
Ecuador. (6.) (I / also / use) my Spanish a lot, and that’s great.
It’s raining
There’s only one bad thing: (7.) (It / rain) a lot these days. But
the rain isn’t stopping
(8.) (the rain / not / stop) us. We are outside every day.

we’re leaving
Well, (9.) (we / leave) the cafe now, so that’s all my news for today.
Are you doing
(10.) (you / do) anything fun this month?

Write soon,

Maiko

© National Geographic Learning
B Answer the questions. Write the numbers (1–10) from A on the correct line.
Which sentences in A are about . . .
1, 2, 3, 9
1. actions happening right now?
4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10
2. actions continuing for a period of time in the present?

Grammar Reference | 195

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 195 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 354 ────────

5 FOOD
LESSON A

THE SIMPLE PRESENT:
THE SIMPLE PRESENT: NEGATIVE STATEMENTS
AFFIRMATIVE STATEMENTS
Subject    Do / Does    Contractions
Verb
Subject pronoun Verb
pronoun    + not with do
I / You / We / They eat
I / You / We / They don’t don’t = do not
meat.
eat meat.
He / She / It eats
He / She / It doesn’t doesn’t = does not

i Notice this
Spelling rules for third person singular (he, she, it)
special spelling rule
for the verb have:
In most cases, add s to the base form of the verb: eat → eats
have → has
If the base form ends in:
• s, sh, ch, x, or z, add es: teach → teaches
• a consonant + y, change the y to i and add es: study → studies
• a consonant + o, add es: go → goes do → does

A Complete the sentences. Use contractions when possible and the simple present forms of the verbs
in parentheses.

lives live
1. Maria (live) in Mexico City, but her parents (live) in a small town.
speaks
studies
She (speak) Spanish, of course, and she also (study) English.
understands doesn’t speak
She (understand) some French, but she (not / speak) it well.

teaches finishes
2. Sarah (teach) at a cooking school. She (finish) at 3:00.
goes
After school, Sarah (go) from campus to a German restaurant.
works
She (work) there.

don’t use use
3. In my family, we (not / use) a fork and knife. We (use) chopsticks.
have has
We (have) rice every day. My little brother (have) milk every morning.
doesn’t drink drinks
My mother (not / drink) milk. She (drink) coffee.

B Write sentences about you and your family. Use item 3 in A as a model. Share your sentences with
a partner.

© National Geographic Learning

196 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 196 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 355 ────────

LESSON B

THE SIMPLE PRESENT: YES / NO QUESTIONS
Do Subject Verb Short answers Contractions with do
Do you    Yes, I do. / No, I don’t. do not = don’t
Does he / she Yes, he / she does. / No, he / she doesn’t. does not = doesn’t
like spicy food?
you Yes, we do. / No, we don’t.
Do do not = don’t
they Yes, they do. / No, they don’t.

A Complete the questions and answers.
Do I don’t
1. you like spicy food? No, .
Do    they do
2. they speak English? Yes, .
Does    he doesn’t
3. he have breakfast with his family? No, .
Do    we do
4. we have a test today? Yes, .
Does    she does
5. your mother cook well? Yes, .
Do    we don’t
6. you and your friend eat lunch together? No, .

B Complete the conversations with Yes / No questions and answers. Then practice with a partner.
1. A: What are you eating?
B: Pasta with chocolate sauce.
Does it taste
A: Really? (it / taste) good?
it does    Do you want
B: Yes, . (you / want) some?
Do you know
2. A: (you / know) Jamie Oliver?
I don’t
B: No, . Who is he?
A: He’s a famous chef from England.
Does he have
B: Oh yeah! (he / have) a show on TV?
Yes, he does
A: . It’s on Channel 4.
Do you know
3. A: My parents want to go to a nice restaurant. (you / know)
a good place?
Do they like
B: (they / like) spicy food?
they don’t
A: No, .
do they eat
B: Oh, okay. Well, (they / eat) sushi?
Yes, they do
A: . They love it.
B: Try Umami Sushi. It’s a good place.

© National Geographic Learning
C In your notebook, write short answers to the questions. Then compare your answers with a
partner’s.

1. Do you want to try the pasta with chocolate sauce?
2. Do you know Jamie Oliver or other famous chefs?
3. Do your parents like spicy food? How about sushi? Do you?

Grammar Reference | 197

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 197 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 356 ────────

6 RELATIONSHIPS
LESSON A

POSSESSIVE NOUNS

Singular nouns Beth’s grandmother is 85.
Plural nouns Her sisters’ names are Sonia and Nadia.
Irregular plural nouns The men’s names are Carlos and Andres.
Names ending in -s Carlos’s / Carlos’ family is from Peru.

A Complete the sentences with a possessive singular or plural noun. Use the word(s) in parentheses.
sister’s
1. My (sister) name is Laura.
brothers’
2. My (brother) names are Ben and Noah.
men’s    women’s
3. In your country, what (men) and (women) names are popular?
classmates’
4. What are your (classmate) names?
Mother’s
WORD BANK
5. Tomorrow is (Mother) Day in Japan.
son = male child
Tomas’s / Tomas’
6. (Tomas) family lives in Mexico City.
daughter = female child
Mr. Lopez’s
7. (Mr. Lopez) sons study in the UK.
sons’
8. His (son) names are Diego and Martin.

B Write sentences about the things below. Use the possessive.
1. The name of your teacher
My teacher’s name is . . .

2. The names of two classmates
My (two) classmates’ names are . . .

3. The name of your friend
My friend’s name is . . .

4. Popular names for men in your country
Popular men’s names are . . .

© National Geographic Learning

198 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 198 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 357 ────────

LESSON B

HAVE GOT

I’ve got = I have got
I’ve / You’ve / We’ve / They’ve    a good job.    you’ve got = you have got
a nice apartment.
got    he’s / she’s got = he / she has got
a big family.
He’s / She’s    we’ve got = we have got
a lot of free time.
they’ve got = they have got
Have got means the same as have. Use have or have got to talk about:

• things you have or own.
He has / has got a good job.
She has / has got a nice apartment.

• relationships.
I have / have got a big family.

• schedules.
They have / have got a lot of free time.

In speaking, use contractions.
I’ve got a big family.
She’s got a nice apartment.

Only use have (not have got) in these cases:
I have breakfast in the morning. (I’ve got breakfast . . .)
I have fun with my friends. (I’ve got fun . . .)

A Complete the sentences with have got or has got.
’s got / has got
1. Paolo isn’t single. He a girlfriend.
’ve got / have got
2. I an older sister and a younger brother.
’s got / has got
3. Mom isn’t home now. She a doctor’s appointment today.
’ve got / have got
4. My sister and I can’t go to the party. We a lot of homework.
’ve got / have got
5. Akemi’s parents live in Japan. They a beautiful house there.
’ve got / have got
6. You six classes this term? Wow, you’re busy!

B Read the sentences. Can you use both have and have got? Or can you only use have? Choose the
correct answer(s).

1. A: Is Linda an only child?
B: No, she has / ’s got a brother and a sister.
2. A: Do you take the bus to school?
B: No, I have / ’ve got a scooter. I drive to school.
© National Geographic Learning
3. A: Is there a party at Nina’s house?
B: Yes, she has / ’s got a party for her birthday every year.
4. A: I need some money for coffee.
B: Here, I have / ’ve got $5.
5. A: Do you eat lunch at school?
B: Yes. I have / ’ve got lunch in the school cafeteria.

Grammar Reference | 199

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 199 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 358 ────────

7 TIME
LESSON A

PREPOSITIONS OF TIME

When’s your class?    Use when to ask about times and days.
i Notice
It’s at 8:30.    Use at for an exact time.
in the morning
It’s in the morning.    Use in for a period of time.
at night
It’s on Monday.    Use on for days of the week.
It’s from 4:00 to 5:30.    Use from . . . to for start and finish times.
It’s from Monday to Friday.

A Read about Lucia’s schedule. Fill in the blanks with at, in, on, from, or to.
in    at
My name is Lucia. I start work (1.) the evening. I start (2.) 9:00 p.m.
at at
and finish (3.) 6 a.m. It’s hard to work (4.) night.
from to    at
My husband works (5.) 9 a.m. (6.) 6 p.m. He wakes up (7.)
at
6 a.m., takes a shower, and eats breakfast. He leaves the house (8.) 8:30. I go to
bed then!
on    in
I don’t work (9.) Saturday. It’s my day off. I do some shopping (10.) the
in
morning. My husband and I go to the park (11.) the afternoon.

B Think of a person you know. Write about their work schedule. Complete the chart.
Starting time
Time of day
Hours
Day(s) off

C Write a few sentences about the person in B.
Example

My father starts work at 8:30 in the morning. He works from 8:30 to 6:00.

He’s off on Saturday and Sunday.

© National Geographic Learning

200 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 200 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 359 ────────

LESSON B

THE SIMPLE PRESENT: WH- QUESTIONS
Short answers
Question word Do / Does Subject Main verb
Where do you go on the weekend?
Where do you go
I go to the park.    on the weekend?
What does she do after school?    To the park.
She The park.
studies.
When do classes start?
They start on Wednesday.    Who do you study
with?
Who do you study with?    Hector.
I study with Hector.

A Read each item. Then use the words in parentheses and information in the
responses to complete the questions.
do you live
1. A: Who (you) with?
B: I live with my father, mother, and sister.
does your mother wake up
2. A: When (your mother) in the morning?
B: She wakes up at 6:15.
do your grandparents live
3. A: Where (your grandparents)?
B: They live next door.
does this class finish
4. A: When (this class)?
B: It finishes at 4:30.
do you go
5. A: Where (you) to school?
B: I go to school at Meiji University.
do you do
6. A: What (you) on the weekend?
B: I go out with my friends.

B With a partner, ask and answer the questions in A.

© National Geographic Learning

Grammar Reference | 201

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 201 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 360 ────────

8 SPECIAL OCCASIONS
LESSON A

WH- QUESTIONS WITH PREPOSITIONS

St. Patrick’s Day is on Saturday.
Many sentences have verbs followed
What day is St. Patrick’s Day on?
by prepositions.
The parade is at 11:00.
What time is the parade at?
When we make question forms for
I live in Brazil.
those sentences, the preposition
What country do you live in?
moves to the end of the sentence.
She lives with her parents.
Who does she live with?
He listens to hip-hop.
What kind of music does he listen to?

A Unscramble the words to make questions.
1. are / thinking / what / about / you
What are you thinking about?

2. you / do / from / come / where
Where do you come from?

3. who / study / you / with / do
Who do you study with?

4. floor / do / live / what / you / on
What floor do you live on?

5. send / you / do / who / to / emails
Who do you send emails to?

6. do / what / you / city / in / live
What city do you live in?

7. of / listen / you / what / to / do / kind / podcasts
What kind of podcasts do you listen to?

8. which / do / school / to / you / go
Which school do you go to?

B With a partner, ask and answer the questions in A.

© National Geographic Learning

202 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 202 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 361 ────────

LESSON B

QUESTIONS WITH WHEN AND HOW LONG

When is the Balloon Fiesta?
How long is the Balloon Fiesta?
It’s from October 5 to October 13.*
Use from . . . to to answer questions (about dates
and seasons) with when and how long.
When is summer break?
How long is summer break?
It’s from July to September.
When is the Balloon Fiesta?    In is used to show a point in time.
It’s in October. / It’s in the fall.    Use in before months, seasons, times of day,
It in the early evening. / It’s in 2021.    and years.
How long is the Balloon Fiesta?
It lasts for nine days.    For is used to show a period of time.
Nine days.
*Remember: When you read it aloud, say “October fifth to October thirteenth.”

A Complete the questions with When or How long. In some cases, both answers are possible.
How long
1. A: do you study?
B: For an hour.
When
2. A: is Independence Day?
B: It’s in the summer.
When / How long
3. A: does this class meet?
B: It meets from 2:00 to 2:45.
When
4. A: does school start?
B: It starts in April.
How long
5. A: do you prepare for a big test?
B: For three days.
When / How long
6. A: is winter break?
B: It’s from December 20 to January 10.
When
7. A: is your favorite show on?
B: In the evening.

B With a partner, ask and answer the questions in A.

© National Geographic Learning

Grammar Reference | 203

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 203 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 362 ────────

9 TOGETHER
LESSON A

FREQUENCY ADVERBS

with be Emilio is always late for class. 100%    Frequency adverbs come after the verb be.
usually    Simple present: Emilio is never late for
often    class.
Present continuous: Emilio is always
sometimes
studying.
hardly ever
never 0%

with other    Emilio always pays his rent on time. With other verbs, most frequency adverbs
verbs    come before the main verb.

sometimes    Usually Emilio takes out the trash.    Sometimes and usually can come at the
and usually But Adam does it sometimes.    beginning or the end of a sentence.

with not Emilio isn’t usually late for class.    Frequency adverbs come after not, except
Emilio doesn’t usually go to bed early.    for sometimes. Don’t put sometimes
Sometimes Emilio doesn’t do his chores.    after not.

A Unscramble the words to make sentences.
1. hardly ever / make / I / bed / my
I hardly ever make my bed
in the morning.
2. makes / bed / my roommate / her / always
My roommate always makes her bed.

3. is / my roommate / always / working
My roommate is always working.

4. don’t / usually / see / I
I don’t usually see
her during the week.
5. watch / sometimes / a movie / my roommate and I
Sometimes my roommate and I watch a movie / My roommate and I sometimes watch a movie
together.
6. late / are / never / we
We are never late.
We pay rent on the first of the month.

B Rewrite the sentences with frequency adverbs so they are true for you.
1. I make my bed in the morning.

2. I’m late for class.
© National Geographic Learning
3. In my house, I make dinner.

4. At night, I watch TV or play video games.

5. I wake up early on the weekend.

204 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 204 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 363 ────────

LESSON B

REVIEW OF QUESTION FORMS: BE ANSWERS

Wh- word Be Noun / Pronoun
Who ’s / is Jessica? She’s Fukue’s friend.
Where ’s / is Fukue? She’s in Japan.
Are they old friends? Yes, they are.
No, they aren’t. / No, they’re not.

REVIEW OF QUESTION FORMS: OTHER VERBS ANSWERS

Wh- word Do Noun /    Verb
Pronoun
When do you hang out with friends? After school.
How long does she study? For about an hour.
Do you make friends easily? Yes, I do. / No, I don’t.

A Read the conversation about a movie. Complete each question.
What are
A: you doing?
B: I’m watching a short movie.
What’s
A: it called?
B: It’s called Finding Fukue.
Is
A: it interesting?
is
B: Yes, it .
What’s
A: it about?
B: It’s about two childhood friends.
What are
A: the two friends’ names?
B: Fukue and Jessica.
Where does
A: the story take place?
B: In Japan.
When does
A: it take place?
B: In 2018.
How long
A: is the movie?
B: Only about 20 minutes.
Do
A: you like it?
B: Yes, I like it a lot.

B Work with a partner. Think about a movie or TV show about friends. Take turns asking and
© National Geographic Learning
answering questions about it.

A: I’m watching a drama.
B: What’s it called?
A: It’s called Itaewon Class.
B: I don’t know it. Is it popular?
A: Yes, it is.

Grammar Reference | 205

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 205 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 364 ────────

10 HOME
LESSON A

THERE IS / THERE ARE

an
Singular There is / There’s elevator
no
in the building.
(two)
Plural There are elevators
no
Use there is to say that something exists in a place.
There’s an elevator in the building.
thing place

Use there are to say that two or more things exist in a place. With the
plural, sometimes we don’t say the number.
There are two elevators in the building.
There are elevators in the building.
In negative sentences, use no.
There’s no elevator in the building.
There are no elevators in the building.

Questions Short Answers
Yes, there is.
Is there an elevator
No, there isn’t.
in the building?
Yes, there are.
Are there (any) elevators
No, there aren’t.
There’s one.
How many elevators are in the building?
There are two.

A Complete the sentences with there is (there’s) or there are.
There’s / There is
1. one bedroom in the apartment.
There are
2. two closets.
WORD BANK
There are
3. large windows in the living room.
microwave (oven)
There’s / There is    refrigerator
4. a nice view from the living room.
window
There’s / There is
5. a kitchen with a refrigerator and a microwave.

B In these sentences, use the negative with there is (there’s) or there are.
There’s no / There is no
1. washing machine in the apartment.
There’s no / There is no
2. AC in the bedroom.
© National Geographic LearningThere are no
3. chairs in the living area.
There’s no / There is no
4. window in the bathroom.
There are no
5. restaurants in the area.

206 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 206 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 365 ────────

C Complete each question and short answer.
How many
1. A: bedrooms are in the apartment?
There’s
B: one.
Is there
2. A: a bathtub in the bathroom?
No, there isn’t
B: . There’s a shower only.
Are there (any)
3. A: closets are in the apartment?
Yes, there are
B: two.
How many
4. A: stores are in the area?
There are
B: a lot—over twenty.

LESSON B

VERY AND TOO

This room is very dark.
He has a very small apartment.
The desk is too big for the room.
It is too hard to study in a bright room.
Very and too make adjectives stronger.
This room is very dark.
The desk is too big for the room.
Use too to say that something is excessive, with a negative result.
The desk is too big. It doesn’t fit in the room.
The apartment is too small for four people. Only two can live there.
Too + adjective is sometimes followed by an infinitive (to + verb).
It’s too hard to study in a bright, white room.
You can only use a very + adjective + noun. Don’t use too.
He has a very small apartment.
He has a too small apartment.

A Complete the sentences with very or too.
too / very
1. It’s noisy in here. I can’t hear you. Let’s go outside.
very
2. This is a beautiful color. Let’s use it in the dining room.
very
3. These chairs are old, but we can still use them.
too
4. This dorm room is small for four people. Four students can’t live in here.
very
5. My neighbor is a nice person. I like him a lot.
too
6. It’s cold to study in this room. Let’s go to the kitchen.
very
7. He lives in a large apartment; it’s almost 200 square meters!
too
8. I’m tired to walk to the fifth floor. I’m taking the elevator.
© National Geographic Learning
too
9. The rent here is $1,000 a month. That’s expensive for me. I can only pay
$800.
very
10. These apartments are expensive, but a lot of people buy them.

Grammar Reference | 207

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 207 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 366 ────────

B Complete the sentences with very or too and your ideas. Then explain your answers to a partner.
1. My bedroom is .
2. I’m too old to .
3. I’m too young to .
4. English is .

11 CLOTHING
LESSON A

HAVE TO AND WANT TO

Verb / Verb + to Verb Noun
1 She has winter boots.
2 She has to wear four jackets to go outside.
3 He wants a silk scarf.
4 He wants to buy a gift for his sister.
1 Use have + noun for things you possess.
2 Have to + verb has a different meaning. Use it to say that something is necessary.
3 Use want + noun for things you don’t possess (but desire).
4 Use want to + verb for things you wish to do.

A Complete the sentences with to. If to isn’t needed, write X.
X to
1. I have a test tomorrow. I have study tonight.
X
2. Does Aya want a new jacket for her birthday?
to
3. Diego doesn’t have wear a suit on Fridays.
to
4. Cleo wants buy a new dress for the party.
X
5. I don’t have money for the bus. Do you?
X to
6. Martin has English class at 9:00 a.m. He has leave home by 8:00.
to
7. Do you want see a movie tonight?
to    to
8. I want wear a jacket to the party. Do I have wear a tie, too?

B Make the sentences true for you. Complete each one with (don’t) want to or
(don’t) have to. Share your answers with a partner.

1. I study English.
2. I wear jeans on the weekend.
© National Geographic Learning
3. I stay at school every day until 4 p.m.
4. I wear a uniform to school.
5. I buy some new clothes.

208 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 208 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 367 ────────

LESSON B

COUNT AND NONCOUNT NOUNS

English divides nouns into things we can count (count nouns) and things we can’t (noncount
nouns).
Count nouns are singular (= one thing) and    Noncount nouns only have a singular form.
plural (= two or more things).    They don’t have a plural form.
I have four ties, but none of them match this    What kind of jewelry do you like?
shirt.
Use a or an before singular count nouns.    Don’t use a or an before noncount nouns.
I need a new jacket for my interview.    I need new jewelry for my interview.
Use some for general amounts. Use it with    Use some with noncount nouns, too.
plural count nouns only.    I need to buy some new furniture.
I have some nice skirts.
Use a pair of to count things that are always plural (pants → a pair of pants).
You can also use a pair of to count things that come in sets of two (shoes → a pair of shoes).
Common noncount nouns: furniture, garbage, jewelry, mail, money, music, vocabulary

A Write a / an or X.
X
1. A: Do you wear jewelry?
a
B: Only wedding ring.
a
2. A: I need pair of gloves. Let’s go shopping.
X
B: Sorry, but I have to do homework.
X
3. A: How much money do I need for the bus?
A
B: dollar.
a
4. A: Oh, no! It’s raining. I don’t have jacket.
an
B: Don’t worry, I always have umbrella in my bag. We can share it.
X
5. A: Do you wear dress clothes to work?
a    X a
B: I wear dress shirt, but casual pants—usually pair of
jeans.

B Look at the list of items. Complete the task.
1. Which ones can take a pair of ? Check (✓) your answers.
2. Choose any three words from the list. Write a sentence using each one. Use a /an, a pair of,
some, or nothing before each noun.
✓
sneakers
blouse
✓
socks
clothes
✓    ✓
sunglasses
gloves

sweater
jewelry
© National Geographic Learning
1.
2.
3.

Grammar Reference | 209

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 209 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 368 ────────

12 JOBS
LESSON A

QUESTIONS WITH LIKE

A: I’m a game developer.    You can use like to ask questions about an
B: Really? What’s that like?    experience. In this question, that means being
A: It’s fun, but the hours are long.    a game developer.
A: My coworker is from Brazil.    You can also use like to ask questions about a
B: Oh? What’s he like?    person and his or her personality.
A: He’s nice.    What’s he like?
What are they like?

A Complete the conversations with the correct questions.
1. A: Ms. Collins is my math teacher this term.
What’s she like?
B: Oh.
A: She’s very nice.
2. A: I’m a student at Stanford University.
What’s that like?
B: Really?
A: It’s a great school. I love it.
3. A: My brother works in an office.
What’s that like?
B:
A: Sometimes it’s boring, but it’s a good job.
4. A: We have a new office manager.
B: Really?    What’s he like?
A: He’s very organized and helpful.

© National Geographic Learning

210 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 210 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 369 ────────

LESSON B

TALKING ABOUT ABILITY WITH CAN / CAN’T

I / You / He / She / We / They can / can’t speak French.
Can and can’t are followed by the base form of the verb.
Can’t is the short form of cannot. In spoken English, can’t is more common.

QUESTIONS WITH CAN / CAN’T

Yes / No questions Can you speak French? Yes, I can. / No, I can’t.
Which languages can you speak? (I can speak) Spanish and English.
Wh- questions
Who can speak Japanese? Toshi (can).

A Complete the conversations with a question or answer with can or can’t.
1. A: Can Mario drive?
he can’t
B: No, . He’s only 14.
Can you drive
2. A: ?
I can
B: Yes, . I’m a good driver.
Can Catia’s parents speak English
3. A: ?
B: No. Catia’s parents can’t speak English.
Can Linda swim
4. A: ?
can’t
B: Yes. Linda can swim, but her sister .

B Make questions and answers about Adam and Sonya using can and the words given.
Adam: musician Sonya: software developer
Languages: English and Mandarin Languages: Spanish and English
Hobbies: I like to ski and play guitar. Hobbies: I like to dance and ski.

Who can speak Mandarin?
1. Who / speak Mandarin?
Adam can (speak Mandarin).
What languages can Sonya speak?
2. What / languages / Sonya / speak?
(She / Sonya can speak) Spanish and English.

Who can build websites?
3. Who / build / websites?
Sonya can (build websites).
Which instrument can Adam play?
4. Which / instrument / Adam / play?
(He / Adam can play) the guitar.

Who can ski?
5. Who / ski?
© National Geographic LearningAdam and Sonya can (ski). / Sonya and Adam can (ski).

Grammar Reference | 211

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 211 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 370 ────────

INFORMATION GAP ACTIVITIES

UNIT 4: LESSON A, GRAMMAR

B Look at the photo. What are Omar and Alba doing? Write sentences.

Omar    Alba

C Your partner’s photo is similar to yours, but there are some differences. Find the
differences together. Ask questions.

In your photo, is Omar
talking to Alba? No, he’s not. He’s . . .

D Repeat B and C with this new photo.

Max Eva

Ari

Jon© National Geographic LearningMia

212 | Information Gap Activities

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 212 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 371 ────────

UNIT 6: LESSON A, ACTIVE ENGLISH

A Student A: Work on your own. Read 1–10 below. Write the answers.
Questions to ask your partner

In English, what’s the word for your . . .
grandfather
1. mother’s father?
uncle
2. father’s brother?
son
3. own male child?
WORD BANK
grandparents
+ plus
4. parents’ parents?
– minus
Do the math.
oldest
5. What is 25 + 25?
50 (fifty)    youngest
75 (seventy-five)
6. What is 31 + 44?
89 (eighty-nine)
7. What is 100 – 11?
41 (forty-one)
8. What is 70 – 29?

Talk about your family.

9. Who is the youngest person in your family? How old is
the person?

10. Who is your favorite family member? What is the
person’s name and how old is he or she?

B Work with your partner. To do this exercise, you need a timer. Follow the steps. If you don’t know an
answer, say pass.

1. One person goes first. Start the timer.
2. Ask your partner your questions in A (1–10). Your partner answers quickly.
Check (✓) the answers your partner says correctly.

3. At the end, write your partner’s total time and the number of correct answers.
4. Switch roles and repeat steps 2 and 3.

C Compare your scores. Who did better: you or your partner?

D On your own, create your own quiz of 10 items (like the one in A).

E Work with your partner again. Repeat B and C.

© National Geographic Learning

Information Gap Activities | 213

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 213 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 372 ────────

UNIT 7: LESSON A, ACTIVE ENGLISH

A Work with a partner. Follow these steps.
STUDENT B
• Look at the activities in your schedule below. Don’t show your schedule to Student A.
• Task 1: You’re taking a big test on Friday afternoon at 4:00. You want to study with your partner
for two hours to prepare for the test. Find a good time to study together.
• Task 2: You want to see a movie at 7:00 in the evening. Find a good day to go.

Discuss your Wednesday schedules first. Then look at your Thursday and Friday
schedules.
Use these expressions: Are you free . . .? I’m busy.

My schedule

Wednesday Thursday Friday
1:00 eat lunch
2:00 eat lunch
3:00 in class
4:00 in class take a test
5:00 exercise work
6:00 work (finishes at 6:15)
7:00 eat dinner

Student A: Let’s study together for the test.

Student B: Good idea!

Student A: Are you free on Wednesday at 3:00?

Student B: I’m sorry, but I’m busy then. I’m in class. How about 5:00?

B Think of your own idea for Saturday or Sunday. Make a plan with your partner.

© National Geographic Learning

214 | Information Gap Activities

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 214 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 373 ────────

UNIT 10: LESSON A, GRAMMAR

B Student A: You are looking for student housing. Follow these steps:
1. Listen to your partner talk about a place for rent. Take notes below.
Is there a
refrigerator?
2. Ask your partner questions to learn about the apartment’s “extras.”
Use is there / are there.

Put a ✓ or an ✗.

About the apartment for rent    Extras (✓ = yes ✗ = no)
WORD BANK
fifth floor. There’s one large    ✓
It’s on the . . .    refrigerator?
microwave (oven)
closets?
room. There’s no kitchen, but there’s a    ✓    refrigerator
microwave to cook simple food. There’s also    ✓    window
laundry room in the building?
a small bathroom.    ✗
elevator?

C Switch roles. Your partner is looking for student housing.
1. Tell your partner about the apartment below.
2. Answer your partner’s questions about the apartment’s extras. Use there is / there are.

About the apartment for rent    Extras (✓ = yes ✗ = no)
It’s on the first floor. There’s one big    ✓ washing machine (in the kitchen)
room with a bed, a desk, and a chair. ✓ windows (one large)
There’s also a small kitchen and a    ✗ closets
bathroom.    ✗ bathtub in the bathroom (shower only)

D Look at the apartments in B and C. Do you want to live there? Why or why not?

© National Geographic Learning

Information Gap Activities | 215

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 215 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 374 ────────

UNIT 10: LESSON B, GRAMMAR

UNIT 12: LESSON B, ACTIVE ENGLISH

EXERCISE C

7–9 points in . . . Good jobs for you:
Group 1 teacher, lawyer, journalist
Group 2 software developer, doctor, customer service rep
Group 3 musician, DJ, singer

7–9 points in . . . Good jobs for you:
Group 4 graphic artist, fashion designer, engineer
Group 5 © National Geographic Learningdancer, athlete, coach
Group 6 diplomat, manager, salesperson

216 | Information Gap Activities

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 216 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 375 ────────

ADDITIONAL ANSWERS

UNIT 2: LESSON A, ACTIVE ENGLISH

EXERCISE A
1. Brasilia
2. Chinese
4. Turkey
5. Mexico
6. Cairo
8. Chile
9. New York City
10. the British royal family
12. Jakarta
14. Germany
15. French and English
16. India
17. Venice
19. Thai
20. Austria
21. Brazil, Colombia, Peru, Bolivia, Venezuela, Ecuador

UNIT 8: LESSON A, SPEAKING

EXERCISE E
1. c 2. b 3. c 4. a

UNIT 9: LESSON B, VOCABULARY

EXERCISE B
98% say they have one or more close friends. 20% say they have six or more.
87% say they have a good friend at school. 35% have a good friend who lives far away.
60% say they spend time with their friends online every day.
24% say they meet their friends in person every day.

© National Geographic Learning

Additional Answers | 217

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 217 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 376 ────────

CREDITS

Illustration: All illustrations are owned by © Cengage.

Cover © Kosuke Wakabayashi; 2–3 (spread) © Laura Morton; 4 (tl) LeoPatrizi/E+/Getty Images, (tc) Jasmin Merdan/
Moment/Getty Images; 5 Sandy Huffaker/The New York Time/Redux; 6 Ben Pipe Photography/Cultura/Getty Images;
9 Narong Pimsook/EyeEm/Getty Images; 12 (tl) amriphoto/E+/Getty Images, (tr) Randy Miramontez/Alamy Stock
Photo, (cr) Zeferli/iStock/Getty Images; 10–11 (spread) Gerd Ludwig/National Geographic Image Collection;
11 Ciril Jazbec/National Geographic Image Collection; 13 Kevin Mazur/Getty Images Entertainment/Getty Images;
14 Julien Hekimian/Getty Image Entertainment/Getty Images; 15 Fei Yang/Moment/Getty Images; 16–17 (spread)
Pgiam/iStock/Getty Images; 18 (tc) Matthias Hangst/Getty Images Sport/Getty Images, (bl1) Roberto Machado
Noa/LightRocket/Getty Images, (bl2) Jose A. Bernat Bacete/Moment/Getty Images, (br1) Creative Photo Corner/
Shutterstock.com, (br2) NurPhoto/Getty Images; 19 Byelikova Oksana/Shutterstock.com; 20 Sandro Bisaro/Moment/
Getty Images; 21 murkalor/Shutterstock.com; 22 (tr1) Jaap2/istock Unreleased/Getty Images, (tr2) Mojito_mak/iStock/
Getty Images, (tr3) (tr4) Jaap2/E+/Getty Images, (tr5) (tr6) somchaisom/iStock/Getty Images; 23 Richard Brew/
Shutterstock.com; 24–25 (spread) Ben1183/iStock/Getty Images; 24 Ariadne Van Zandbergen/Lonely Planet Images/
Getty; 26 Tuul & Bruno Morandi/The Image Bank/Getty Images; 27 eFesenko/Alamy Stock Photo; 28 Pierrick Lemaret/
Alamy Stock Photo; 29 San Cristóbal/National Geographic Image Collection; 30–31 (spread) © Glen Mitchell;
32 (tr1) John Kasawa/Shutterstock.com, (tr2) carolgaranda/Shutterstock.com, (tr3) Freedom Life/Shutterstock.
com, (c) ozanuysal/Shutterstock.com, (bc) RichLegg/E+/Getty Images; 33 © John Stanmeyer; 34 (tr) Dobo Kristian/
Shutterstock.com, (cl) Camilla wisbauer/E+/Getty Images, (c) Don Farrall/DigitalVision/Getty Images, (cr) BK foto/
Shutterstock.com; 35 Richard Baker/In Picture/Getty Images; 37 © John Thackwray; 38–39 (spread) Africa Studio/
Shutterstock.com; 39 Album/Alamy Stock Photo; 40 Gary Yeowell/Digital Vision/Getty Images; 41 (cl1) (cl2) Jaap2/
E+/Getty Images; 43 Cavan Images/Getty Images; 44 worapol sittiphaet/Getty Images; 45 Witthaya Prasongsin/
Moment/Getty Images; 46–47 (spread) © Md Tanveer Hassan Rohan; 48 (bl1) andresr/E+/Getty Images, (bl2) d3sign/
Moment/Getty Images, (bl3) fizkes/Shutterstock.com, (bc) Hispanolistic/E+/Getty Images, (br1) Dougal Waters/
Digital vision/Getty Images, (br2) Tom Werner/Digital vision/Getty Images, (cl) Goran Bogicevic/Shutterstock.com,
(cr) DragonImages/Alamy Stock Photo; 49 Jordan Siemens/Stone/Getty Images; 50 Hal Bergman/Moment/Getty
Images; 51 (cr) GaudiLab/Shutterstock.com; (bc) fizkes/Shutterstock.com; 52 vgajic/E+/Getty Images; 53 Adam
Bronkhorst/Alamy Stock Photo; 56 Odd Andersen/AFP/Getty Images; 54 (spread) © Harvard University News Office;
57 Joel Sartore/National Geographic Image Collection; 59 RudyBalasko/iStock/Getty Images; 60–61 (spread) © Ryan
Matthew Smith; 62 (tl) mg7/iStock/Getty Images, (tc) spaxiax/Shutterstock.com, (tr) OlgaMiltsova/iStock/Getty Images
Plus/Getty Images, (cl) Olga Nayashkova/Shutterstock.com, (c) fotogal/iStock/Getty Images, (cr) VeselovaElena/iStock/
Getty Images, (bl) Darryl Brooks/Shutterstock.com, (bc) Brent Hofacker/Shutterstock.com, (br) Dejan Stanic Micko/
Shutterstock.com; 63 Jeff Greenberg/Universal image group/Getty Images; 64 Elena Eryomenko/Shutterstock.com;
65 fcafotodigital/E+/Getty Images; 66 Klaus Vedfelt/Digital vision/Getty Images; 67 Lisovskaya Natalia/Shutterstock.
com; 68–69 (spread) FatCamera/E+/Getty Images; 70 prmustafa/iStock/Getty Images; 71 TorriPhoto/Moment/Getty
Images; 72 Vittorio Caramazza/Alamy Stock Photo; 73 Marvin Zilm (13 Photo)/Redux; 74–75 (spread) Kirsten Luce/
The New York Times/Redux; 76 (tl1) Mike Tauber/Getty Images, (tl2) Morsa Images/DigitalVision/Getty Images,
(tc1) tirc83/E+/Getty Images, (tc2) Diego Cervo/Shutterstock.com, (tr1) Juanmonino/E+/Getty Images, (tr2) kali9/
E+/Getty Images, (cl1) DMEPhotography/iStock/Getty Images, (cl2) JohnnyGreig/E+/Getty Images, (cr1) oliveromg/
Shutterstock.com, (cr2) FG Trade/E+/Getty Images; 77 © Familia Zapp Family; 78 Tetra Images, LLC/Alamy Stock
Photo; 82–83 (spread) © Guillaume Herbaut/Institute; 84 © Wayne Lawrence; 85 Robert Recker/The Image Bank/
Getty Images; 87 David Guttenfelder/National Geographic Image Collection; 88 Evan Sung/The New York Times/
Redux; 90–91 (spread) Fabrizio Verrecchia/Unsplash.com; 92 (tl1) (tl2) (tr1) (tr2) jantima14/Shutterstock.com;
93 NASA; 94 gregobagel/Getty Images; 96 Dan Porges/Archive Photos/Getty Images; 97 Eloi_Omella/E+/Getty
Images; 98 (tr) picture alliance/Getty Images, (cl) Tetra Images, LLC/DreamPictures/Alamy Stock Photo, (c) Thomas
Barwick/Stone/Getty Images; 99 Delmaine Donson/E+/Getty Images; 100 Reuters/Alamy Stock Photo; 103 Marcos Issa/
Bloomberg/Getty Images; 104–105 (spread) © Daniel Kudish; 106 Paul Brown/Alamy Stock Photo; 107 R.M. Nunes/
Alamy Stock Photo; 108 Paul Faith/AFP/Getty Images; 109 Aflo Co. Ltd./Alamy Stock Photo; 110 GibsonPictures/E+/
Getty Images; 111 © Jim Richardson Photography; 112–113 (spread) lukas bischoff/Alamy Stock Photo; 114 Yaacov
Dagan/Alamy Stock Photo; 115 Daniel Knighton/FilmMagic/Getty Images; 116 Jeff J Mitchell/Getty Images News/
Getty Images; 117 Douglas MacDonald/Moment/Getty Images; 118–119 (spread) Barcroft Media/Getty Images;
121 Alexander Spatari/Moment/Getty Images; 122 Peter Cade/Stone/Getty Images; 123 Antonio Guillem/Shutterstock.
com; 125 McKayla Chandler/Shutterstock.com; 126–127 (spread) Corey Arnold/National Geographic Image Collection;
128 © Ronald C. Stuart; 130 Maskot/Getty Images; 131 Thomas Barwick/Stone/Getty Images; 132 Christopher Polk/
Shutterstock.com; 134–135 (spread) imageBroker/Alamy Stock Photo; 136 jafara/Shutterstock.com; 137 © Joao Pina;
138 Trong Nguyen/Shutterstock.com; 140 Photographee.eu/Shutterstock.com; 141 Iriana Shiyan/Shutterstock.com;
142–143 (spread) Mint Images/Robert Harding Library; 144 Mike Morgan/The Washington Post/Getty Images;
145 Nikada/E+/Getty Images; 146 Zoonar RF/Getty Images; 147 T.H. Culhane/National Geographic Image Collection;
148–149 (spread) Hannah Morales Reyes/National Geographic Image Collection; 150 XiXinXing/Getty Images;
© National Geographic Learning
150 Christopher Malcolm/DigitalVision/Getty Images; 151 Beerpixs/Moment/Getty Images; 152 robertharding/Alamy
Stock Photo; 153 Paul Chesley/National Geographic Image Collection; 154 Joaquin Corbalan pastor/Alamy Stock
Photo; 155 Per-Anders Pettersson/Getty Images News/Getty Images; 156–157 (spread) PeopleImages/E+/Getty
Images; 158 4x6/iStock/Getty Images; 159 Tuul & Bruno Morandi/DigitalVision/Getty Images; 160 Cordon Press/Alamy
Stock Photo; 161 (t) VolodymyrSanych/Shutterstock.com, (bc) Anadolu Agency/Getty Images; 162–163 (spread)
Christophe Lepetit/Figarophoto/Redux; 164-165 picture alliance/Getty Images; 166 Mark Andrews/Alamy Stock Photo;
167 © Tran Tuan Viet; 168 Allies Interactive/Shutterstock.com; 169 Peter Dazeley/The Image Bank/Getty Images;
170–171 (spread) Lutz Jaekel/laif/Redux; 172 dePablo/Zurita/laif/Redux; 173 Jeff Greenberg/Universal Images Group/
Getty Images; 175 Corey Arnold/National Geographic Image Collection; 176 STR/AFP/Getty Images; 189 (cl) Erik
Isakson/Blend Images/Alamy Stock Photo, (cr) Jamie Carroll/iStock/Getty Images Plus/Getty Images; 193 (cl) Goran
Bogicevic/Shutterstock.com, (c) Mika Images/Alamy Stock Photo, (cr) iStock.com/Ababsolutum, (bl) Konstantin Chagin/
Shutterstock.com, (bc) hans.slegers/Shutterstock.com, (br) fizkes/Shutterstock.com; 195 Elena Kalistratova/Vetta/Getty
Images; 212 (t) GaudiLab/Shutterstock.com, (b) fizkes/Shutterstock.com; 216 (tl) Natalia Kashina/Shutterstock.com,
(tr) Mark Kolbe/Getty Images, (cl) Mint Images/Getty Images, (cr) Anthony Asael/Art in All of Us/Getty Images.

218 | Credits

WLTB_INT_EM_P178-218_ptg01.indd 218 24/05/21 5:47 PM

──────── Page 377 ────────

SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT

This edition of World Link provides three types of supplementary content to accommodate a range of
instructional needs. Answer keys and audio scripts are provided at the end of this section.

Bridge Units
Bridge Units, provided every three units, are designed as refreshers before students move on to a
new block of content. They briefly review the main language goals of the previous three units (and
in the case of Unit 1, the last three units of the previous level), with a focus on getting students to
remember what they already know and bring passive knowledge to the front of their minds. So, for
example, the Bridge Unit for Unit 1 of Student Book 3 reviews Units 10–12 of Student Book 2. The
Bridge Unit for the beginning of Student Book Intro supports familiarity with topics such as classroom
language and greetings. Exercises are communicative in nature and include pair and group work.

Instructors may find these Bridge Units useful when starting a new level or combo split level, but
quarterly bridge units (reviewing units 1–3 or 7–9 of a given level) may also be of use when there is
a break in the academic calendar or if particular students in the class could benefit from additional
support.

Review Pages
Review pages are also provided with this edition, with a set of review exercises for every unit. These
pages focus heavily on consolidating students’ knowledge of the units’ grammar, with an additional
emphasis on listening and reading skill development. Exercises are geared more toward an
assessment approach and emphasize individual work.

Instructors can again use these pages as differentiated instruction for students who may need
remediation, as extra review for the whole class leading up to an assessment, as homework, or even
as Unit quizzes.

Process Writing
For classes that wish to further support the Writing practice in the Student’s Book, a Process Writing
set of exercises is provided every three units. These materials guide students through the planning
and organizing phases of writing and encourage reflection and critical review of the finished draft.
Classes working with more formal training in writing may choose to make use of this resource on a
regular basis, or once or twice per course.

For ease of access, you may choose to download this supplementary content to print from the
companion site, or email to your students to print, rather than photocopy from the book. Login
credentials are provided on the inside front cover of this Teacher’s Book. Audio files and answer keys
are also on the companion site.

These additional resources are intended to be flexible options and are not required for success with
World Link. We hope they provide useful additional support for your specific course needs.

© National Geographic Learning

SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT | T219

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 219 25/05/21 9:48 PM

──────── Page 378 ────────

BRIDGE TO UNIT 1

1 CLASSROOM EXPRESSIONS

A Look at the pictures. Listen to the expressions. Then listen again and repeat. 1

1. Look at Unit 1, page 10. 2. Listen to the conversation. 3. Work by yourself / in
pairs / in groups.

4. Sit down. / Stand up. 5. Open / Close your book / the    6. Repeat after me / the
door / the window.    recording.

B Close your book. Listen to your instructor and act out the actions you hear.

C Look at the pictures. Listen to the classroom instructions below. Then listen again and repeat. 2

1. Practice 2. Number 3. Read 4. Write 5. Match

© National Geographic Learning
6. Check 7. Circle 8. Underline 9. Complete 10. Unscramble

T220 | BRIDGE TO UNIT 1

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 220 25/05/21 9:48 PM

──────── Page 379 ────────

D Work in pairs. Student A: Read the classroom instructions in A    Sit down.
and C to your partner. Student B: Listen and act out the actions    Open your book.
you hear. Switch roles and repeat.

2
GET HELP

A Listen. Repeat the questions. 3

1. What does notebook mean?    4. Can I use the pen, please?
2. What does door mean?    5. Can I please go to the restroom?
3. What does pencil mean?    6. Can I leave for a minute, please?

B Write the correct numbers to match the answers to the questions in A. Then practice asking and
answering the questions in A with a partner.

a. Yes. You can leave.    d. You use it to write.

b. You enter a room through it.    e. Yes. You can use the pen.

c. It is a book to write in.    f. Yes. You can go to the restroom.

3 ALPHABET AND NUMBERS

A Listen. Repeat the alphabet. Then work with a partner. Spell your names. 4

How do you spell
Alphabet
your name?
Aa Bb Cc Dd Ee Ff Gg Hh Ii Jj Kk Ll Mm
P-A-L-O-M-A.

Nn Oo Pp Qq Rr Ss Tt Uu Vv Ww Xx Yy Zz

B Listen. Repeat the numbers. Then work with a partner. Spell the numbers. 5
© National Geographic Learning
Numbers 1–20

0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10

zero one two three four five six seven eight nine ten

11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20

eleven twelve thirteen fourteen fifteen sixteen seventeen eighteen nineteen twenty

BRIDGE TO UNIT 1 | T221

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 221 25/05/21 9:48 PM

──────── Page 380 ────────

4 GREETINGS

A Listen. Repeat the sentences. 6
1. Hi, my name is Andrea.    4. Hi, Cristina. I’m Roberto.
2. Hello, I’m Tomás.    5. It’s nice to meet you, Roberto.
3. This is Cristina.    6. Nice to meet you, too.

B Talk to a partner.
Hi, my name is
. Hello, I’m
.

C Work in a group. Introduce your classmates.
This is . It’s nice to meet you,
.

Hi, .    Nice to meet you, too.
I’m .

D Look at the pictures. Listen and repeat the formal greetings and farewells. 7

4:00 a.m. – 12:00 noon 12:01 p.m. – 6:00 p.m. 6:01 p.m. – 11:00 p.m.
Good morning, Mrs. Pine. Good afternoon, Ms. Baker. Good evening, Mr. Jones.
Goodbye. Goodbye. Good night.
See you this evening. See you tomorrow.
See you tonight.

LEARNING STRATEGIES

1. Prepare yourself for class (bring your dictionary, review your notes, etc.).
2. Pay attention in class and take notes.
3. Participate actively and cooperatively in class (in pairs, groups, etc.).
4. Ask when you have a question.
5. Look for opportunities to reinforce what you have learned (homework, online
© National Geographic Learning
resources, etc.).

T222 | BRIDGE TO UNIT 1

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 222 25/05/21 9:48 PM

──────── Page 381 ────────

5
CLASSROOM VOCABULARY

A Label the photos. Use the words in the box. Listen and check your answers. 8

board desk door keyboard pencil textbook
bulletin board dictionary eraser pen screen window

1. dictionary    2. 3. 4.

5. 6. 7. 8.

9. 10. 11. 12.

B Tell a partner the names of the things in A.
What’s this?

© National Geographic LearningIt’s a .

BRIDGE TO UNIT 1 | T223

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 223 25/05/21 9:49 PM

──────── Page 382 ────────

BRIDGE TO UNIT 4

1 CLASSROOM EXPRESSIONS

A Put the conversation in the correct order. Then practice it with a partner.
a. Sure, William. What’s your question?

b. Ok. What’s the word? Can you spell it for me?

c. OK. It’s pronounced “crau-did.”
1 d. Excuse me, Mr. Richards. Can I ask a question?

e. I don’t know how to pronounce a word.

f. Yes, it’s spelled C-R-O-W-D-E-D.

02
GRAMMAR

A Complete each sentence using one of the words in the box.
her his my our their your

my
1. This is student ID.
2. We are in English Level A. teacher is Jill.
3. first name is Monica.
4. Jack is a student. ID number is 875.
5. Marcos, last name is Sánchez. Is that right?
6. These are Zoe and Enrique. ID numbers are 144 and 883.

B Match the questions and answers. Then practice asking and answering the questions
with a partner.
d 1. Is Jennifer Lawrence your favorite actress?

2. Are you friends with anyone from China?
3. Is Adele their favorite singer?
4. Is Pitbull his real name?
5. Are you a student?
6. Is your best friend from the US?

a. Yes, I am. My friend Min is from Beijing.

b. No, she isn’t. Taylor Swift is their favorite.

c. No, it isn’t. His real name is Armando Pérez.
© National Geographic Learning
d. Yes, she is! Her movies are great.

e. No, I’m not. I’m your teacher!

f. Yes, he is. He’s from Chicago.

T224 | BRIDGE TO UNIT 4

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 224 25/05/21 9:49 PM

──────── Page 383 ────────

C Unscramble the words to make questions. Then write answers. Use correct capitalization and
punctuation.

Machu Picchu –    Beijing – Li Min
Michael and Sergio    and Chris

Tokyo – Elena and Kyoko

Where is Elena?; She’s in Tokyo.
1. Elena / is / where
2. with / who / Sergio / is
3. Michael and Sergio / are / where
4. in / who / Beijing / is
5. who / with / is / Kyoko
6. is / Chris / where

D Complete each sentence with the correct form of the verb to be. Then use the information
to ask and answer questions about the cities with a partner.

1. Beijing is a very large city.    4. Kyoto a very old place.
2. Malaga small and relaxing.    5. A lot of modern cities boring.
3. People in Australia friendly.    6. Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo
exciting.

© National Geographic Learning
E Circle the errors in the sentences. Use this, that, these, or those.
LEARNING STRATEGY
Two of the sentences are correct.
When you learn new vocabulary,
write the word and additional
1. That Those is Carly’s cell phone under the chair.
information in your notebook.
2. Excuse me, is this your pen?
For example, if a new noun has a
special plural form, make a note of
3. I think this are her sunglasses on that table.
it, too.
4. Is those Mark?
5. We really like these headphones. They’re cool.
6. Sorry, these is my tablet. Yours is on the shelf.

BRIDGE TO UNIT 4 | T225

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 225 25/05/21 9:49 PM

──────── Page 384 ────────

3
VOCABULARY

A Make the words in the box plural. Then use them to complete the sentences.

backpack camera dictionary headphones knife watch

1. There are two backpacks in the school office.
2. Toni has three expensive , but he uses his phone to tell the time.
3. Lisa is a photographer, so she has three .
4. There are no in the school, for safety.
5. My dad wears when he listens to music.
6. There are a lot of in the class.

B Complete the ID card with your information. Then answer your partner’s questions.

UNIVERSITY UNIVERSITY
First name:    First name:

Last name:
Last name:

ID number:    ID number:

Male    Male
STUDENT IDFemale    STUDENT IDFemale

i Numbers 0–10    What’s your first name?
0 zero 4 four    8 eight
1 one 5 five    9 nine    What’s your last name?
2 two    6 six    10 ten
3 three 7 seven

How do you spell that?

What’s your ID number?

C Write the nationality next to each country. Use one of the endings in the box.

-can -ese -ian -ish

1. Peru Peruvian    4. Spain
2. Japan    5. Brazil
3. Mexico    6. Portugal
© National Geographic Learning
D Circle the correct word to complete each sentence. Then describe a city or a place to your partner.
1. People in Canada are very new / friendly.
2. Machu Picchu is a very old / boring place.
3. Copacabana is a relaxing / tall beach.
4. The Louvre and the Prado are small / famous museums.
5. The streets of Tokyo are crowded / relaxing.
6. The Burj Khalifa is very old / tall.

T226 | BRIDGE TO UNIT 4

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 226 25/05/21 9:49 PM

──────── Page 385 ────────

E Look at the photos. Unscramble the letters to make words and
LEARNING STRATEGY
write them on the correct lines.
When you see a word that you
don’t know, ask yourself if it
looks like a word that you already
nsuaslsesg kacapcbk radc fgti spedhonhae telalw ctawh
know in your own language.

1. 3. 5. gift card

2. 4. 6.

4 WRITING

A Think of an object in your backpack. What’s good about it? Write two things. What’s bad about it?
Write one thing. Use the words in the box.

bad big cool excellent expensive good poor small

© National Geographic Learning

BRIDGE TO UNIT 4 | T227

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 227 25/05/21 9:49 PM

──────── Page 386 ────────

BRIDGE TO UNIT 7

1
CLASSROOM EXPRESSIONS

A Match the questions and the answers.
e 1. How do you spell brother? a. It means “not married.”

2. What does single mean? b. Sure. I said, “She’s going to lunch.”
3. What person is the mother of your cousin? c. Your aunt.
4. Can you please repeat that? d. I said, “Please give me a pencil.”
5. I’m sorry. What did you say? e. B-R-O-T-H-E-R.

2 GRAMMAR

A Look at the picture. Tell your partner about three things you see.

B Look at the picture. Circle the correct form of be.
1. They am / is / are talking.
2. Am / Is / Are she looking at her phone?
3. He am / is / are drinking soda.
4. They© National Geographic Learning am / is / are not shopping.
5. Am / Is / Are he studying for a test?
6. He am / is / are looking at a newspaper.

T228 | BRIDGE TO UNIT 7

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 228 25/05/21 9:49 PM

──────── Page 387 ────────

C Unscramble the words to make sentences. Use correct capitalization. Then practice the
conversation with a partner.
What are you doing
1. Hi, Leo. (doing / you / what / are) ?
2. (basketball / a / I’m / game / watching) . What about you, Julia?
3. I’m on the bus. (park / the / going / I’m / to) .
4. That’s nice. (there / Carmen / meeting / are / you) ?
5. Yes, I am. (she’s / at / coming / 2:30) . How’s the game?
6. It’s great! (is / team / well / my / doing / really) !

D Rewrite the sentences to mean the opposite. Use contractions when possible.
I drink soda with meals.
1. I don’t drink soda with meals.
2. She is going to college in Canada.
3. We’re taking an art class.
4. He doesn’t like milk.
5. They don’t know a good place to study.
6. You are preparing for the university exam.

E Make questions from the sentences. Then practice asking and answering the questions with
a partner.
Does Chris like spicy food?
1. Chris likes spicy food.
2. We drink a lot of water.
3. They eat healthy snacks.
4. He takes vitamins.
5. Maria has fruit for breakfast.
6. I drink coffee.

F Correct the possessives in the sentences. Two of the sentences are correct.
Angela is the children’s aunt.
1. Angela is the childrens’ aunt.
2. Miguel is my sister’s son.
3. Robert and Carlos are her parents’s friends.
4. Ines is Carmens’ sister.
5. Oscar is Mrs. Lopez’s nephew.
6. Emma and Tomas are my mothers’ parents.

© National Geographic Learning
G Write short answers for the questions. Use the information in parentheses.
Kelly does.
1. Who has a cousin? (Kelly)
2. How many sisters does Steven have? (three)
3. Who has three children? (Marta and Jonathan)
4. How many people does your family have? (five)
5. Who has a brother and a sister? (Toni)
6. Who doesn’t have any cousins? (Javier)

BRIDGE TO UNIT 7 | T229

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 229 25/05/21 9:49 PM

──────── Page 388 ────────

3
VOCABULARY

A Write the words under the photos. Some photos need two words. Then ask and answer questions
about the photos with your partner.

drinking eating exercising going listening shopping studying talking texting watching

1. studying    3. 5. 7.

2. 4. 6. 8.

B Look at the photos. Write the food words. Then tell your partner which items you like.

1. spinach salad    3. 5.

© National Geographic Learning
2. 4. 6.

T230 | BRIDGE TO UNIT 7

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 230 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 389 ────────

C Complete the sentences with the words in the box. Three words are extra.
energy good for you healthy high in meals snack tastes unhealthy vitamins

1. Vegetable soup and bread are a healthy lunch.
2. I’m having some cheese and fruit as a .
3. Orange juice has many .
4. We think this fried chicken good.
5. You shouldn’t drink a lot of soda. It’s sugar.
6. Eat healthy snacks between .

D Look at the family tree. Answer the questions with
10
a partner. Then take turns and talk about your family.

grandmother grandfather
1 Barbara 2 Pascal
mother father
11
sister brother
aunt uncle
cousin grandparents
parents
3 Susanna 4 David 7 Gina 8 Omar

5 Jen Amy 6 Justin 9 Kelly

Omar is Kelly’s father.
1. Who is Kelly’s father?
2. Who are Amy’s parents?
3. Who are Justin’s sisters?
4. Who is Jen’s cousin?
5. Who are Amy and Kelly’s grandparents?
6. Who is Justin’s aunt?

4 WRITING    LEARNING STRATEGY
Review the new vocabulary in
A Write three sentences about your family. Use the words in the box.    your notebook at least once a
week. It’s more enjoyable to
© National Geographic Learning
boyfriend cousin girlfriend mother single    review your vocabulary with a
brother father married seeing someone sister    classmate or a friend.

BRIDGE TO UNIT 7 | T231

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 231 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 390 ────────

BRIDGE TO UNIT 10

1 GRAMMAR

A Circle the correct word to complete each sentence.
1. My birthday is at / on / from Friday this year.
2. She does her homework in / at / on the afternoon.
3. Our class is from / at / on 10:00 in / on / to 11:30.
4. The basketball game is on / from / at 3:00 this afternoon.
5. I like to exercise to / in / from the morning.
6. Let’s go to the movies on / to / at 6:00.

B Read the sentences and look at the words in parentheses. Write questions. Then replace the
underlined words with people that you know and practice asking and answering with a partner.
When do you study?
1. I study in the morning. (when)
2. Liz goes out with David on Saturdays. (who)

3. Pablo lives in Lima. (where)
4. We swim in the afternoon. (what)
5. Mike works on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. (when)
6. They have class in the morning. (what)

C Write questions with the cues.
When is your break?
1. when / be / break
2. when / you / study / English
3. how long / be / the movie
4. when / your vacation / start
5. when / be / your birthday
6. how long / you / study

D Put the conversation in order. Then practice with your partner.
a. That sounds great. How long is the flight?

b. Twelve hours!

c. Wow . . . New York. That’s great! How long is your trip?
1 d. Hi, Tony! When is your vacation?

e. It’s five days. New York is a big city!
© National Geographic Learning
f. Oh, hi, Hector. I’m leaving next week. I’m visiting
New York.

E Rewrite each sentence with the frequency adverb in parentheses
in the correct place.

1. I go to the beach on the weekend. (rarely)
I rarely go the beach on the weekend.

T232 | BRIDGE TO UNIT 10

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 232 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 391 ────────

2. They go to a cafe after class. (always)

3. You do the dishes. (hardly ever)

4. We don’t make dinner on Fridays. (usually)

5. My roommate takes out the garbage. (never)

6. She goes to the movies with her friend. (often)

F Match the questions and the answers. Then replace the underlined names with people you know
and practice asking and answering with a partner.
b 1. Where does Rachel go to school?
a. He has a Toyota.

b. She goes to National University.
2. Who does Greg live with?
c. They usually play tennis.
3. What do Will and Lee do on the
weekends?
d. He’s 22.
4. How old is Josh?
e. He lives with a roommate.
5. What kind of car does Marcos have?
f. She works at a bank.
6. Where does Jenni work?

LEARNING STRATEGY
When you aren’t sure you
understand someone, try
repeating what they said in
your own words.

So you’re saying . . .

© National Geographic Learning

BRIDGE TO UNIT 10 | T233

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 233 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 392 ────────

2
VOCABULARY

A Write the times under the clocks. Express the time in two ways for each clock.

nine fifteen;
1. 3. 5.
quarter past nine

2. 4. 6.

B Write the expressions under the photos.

go dancing go for a hike go for a walk go shopping go to a friend’s house go to the movies

1. go for a walk 3. 5.

2. 4. 6.
© National Geographic Learning
C Unscramble the letters to write the names of months. Remember to capitalize the first letter.
1. m r d e e c b e December    4. s g a t u u
2. a r j a y n u    5. v e n b m o e r
3. c r m a h    6. y l j u

T234 | BRIDGE TO UNIT 10

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 234 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 393 ────────

D Write the expressions under the pictures. Some pictures need more than one expression.
clean a room do the dishes do the laundry go shopping make dinner make the bed

clean a room;
1. 2. 3. 4.
make the bed

3
WRITING

A In your notebook, write a paragraph giving your opinion about a place. Use ideas from the box,
or write about your own idea.

beach cafe concert mall movie park

4
CLASSROOM EXPRESSIONS

A Put the conversation in the correct order. Then practice it with a partner.
a. How do you spell that?
LEARNING STRATEGY
Don’t worry about understanding
b. How do you say tarea in English?
every word you hear or read.
1
c. Can I use your dictionary?
Pay attention to the words you
already know. You’ll add words
d. You’re welcome!
to your vocabulary quickly.
e. Sure. What’s the problem?

f. It’s homework.

g. H-O-M-E-W-O-R-K.

h. Thank you!

© National Geographic Learning

BRIDGE TO UNIT 10 | T235

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 235 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 394 ────────

UNIT 1 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Unscramble the words to make statements and questions. Use correct capitalization and
punctuation.

1. name / is / last / my / Cruz
My last name is Cruz.

2. are / students / they / ?

3. Antonio / I / hi, / am

4. teacher / Marta / a / is / ?

5. favorite / is / my / sport / swimming

02 QUESTION FORMULATION

A Write a Yes / No question using the cues in the chart. Next, find someone in class who answers Yes
to each question. Then write their answer. Pay attention to the singular or plural.

Question Yes: Answer
1. favorite sport / soccer    Is soccer your favorite sport? Yes, it is.
2. favorite music / pop
3. favorite class / English
4. favorite textbook / World Link
5. favorite movies / scary movies
6. favorite TV shows / reality shows

3
SPEAKING

A Meet your classmates. Move around the classroom and talk to at least three classmates.
Follow these steps:
• Say Hello and introduce yourself.
• Say if you have a nickname.
© National Geographic Learning
• Ask your partner how to spell his or her name.
• Ask your partner his or her email address.
• Tell your partner one of your favorite things (music, sport, etc.).
• Say Goodbye to your partner.

T236 | UNIT 1 REVIEW

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 236 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 395 ────────

Liliana’s nickname is Lili. Her
B Tell the class about your new friends. Say if they have a
favorite sport is basketball.
nickname. Say something about their favorite sport, music, etc.

4
WRITING

A Choose your favorite actor / singer / sports player / writer. Write sentences in your notebook to
answer these questions: (1.) What’s his or her nickname? (2.) What’s his or her first name?
(3.) What’s his or her last name?

5
EXAM PREPARATION: LISTENING

A Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and a question after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 9

1. What is the man’s ID number?
4. What is the man’s last name?
a. Carlos. c. 973880.
a. 359725. c. Running.

b. Soccer. d. Conde.
b. Sato. d. Enrique.

2. What is the woman’s favorite sport?
5. What is the woman’s nickname?
a. Classical. c. Basketball.
a. Classical. c. Lopez.

b. Lia. d. Hernández.
b. Josefina. d. Fina.

3. What is the woman’s first name?
6. What is the man’s email address?
a. Carmen. c. Paco.
a. Hip-hop. c. Patrick.

b. Rap. d. carmen.perez@youmail.com
b. 902671. d. patrick.jones@inmail.com

B Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and three questions after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 10

1. What’s the man’s first name?
4. What’s the woman’s favorite sport?
a. Federico. c. 775301.
a. Baseball. c. Baseball.

b. Fede. d. francisco.sastre@corremail.
b. Soccer. d. Basketball.
com
5. What’s the woman’s favorite team?
2. What’s the man’s nickname?
a. Baseball. c. Classical.
© National Geographic Learning
a. Federico. c. Fede.
b. Venus Williams. d. Real Madrid.
b. Sastre. d. Baseball.
6. Who’s the woman’s favorite player?
3. What’s the man’s ID number?
a. Hip-hop. c. Sergio Ramos.
a. Chelsea. c. Quique.
b. 278951. d. Sporting Cristal.
b. Soccer. d. 775301.

UNIT 1 REVIEW | T237

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 237 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 396 ────────

UNIT 2 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Unscramble the words to make statements and questions. Use correct capitalization and
punctuation.

1. from / you / where / are / ?
Where are you from?

2. Lima / from / I’m

3. with / who / you / is / ?

4. in / Marta / New York City / is

5. at / they / the / museum / are

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Look at the cues. Write a Wh- question and full answer for each. Use correct capitalization and
punctuation.
Where is Elsa from? She is from Arequipa. OR Where is Elsa? She is at home.
1. where / Elsa

2. where / they

3. who / the teacher

4. where / people / friendly

5. who / with you

6. where / Bangkok

3 © National Geographic Learning
SPEAKING

A What’s a good place for vacation? Circle the words that describe the type of place you like.
Add some of your own words. Share your list with a partner.

beautiful boring crowded friendly interesting old relaxing
big busy exciting fun large popular wonderful

T238 | UNIT 2 REVIEW

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 238 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 397 ────────

B Work with a partner. Together, decide on a place that interests both of you. Tell the class
about the place.

My words are interesting,    A beach is beautiful,
small, and beautiful. My words are old,    relaxing, and popular.
friendly, and quiet.

4 WRITING

A Write a description of the students below. State their names, where they are from, what
languages they speak, and any other information you would like to add. At the end, introduce
the students and yourself to a partner.

There are a lot of interesting
students in the class.
Emilia is from Rome. She is Italian.

Yusuf, Ankara, Turkey; Paula, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Emilia,
Rome, Italy; John, London, UK; Amy, Sydney, Australia

5
EXAM PREPARATION: READING

A Circle the best answer for each question.
1. What is the capital of Japan?
4. Complete the sentence: Rio de Janeiro is
a city with
a. Brazil. c. Tokyo.
beaches.
b. Mexico City. d. Australia.
a. fun / small
2. Jane is from Australia. What is her
b. old / popular
language?
c. busy / beautiful
a. Spanish. c. Chinese.
d. small / boring
b. English. d. Portuguese.
© National Geographic Learning
5. Which adjectives describe Easter Island
3. Complete the sentence: Lima is
in Chile?
, , and
a. Large, old, and modern.
.
b. Crowded and Brazilian.
a. big / crowded / interesting
c. Peruvian, small, and interesting.
b. tall / fun / new
d. Popular, old, and beautiful.
c. beautiful / small / boring

d. new / famous / small

UNIT 2 REVIEW | T239

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 239 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 398 ────────

UNIT 3 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Unscramble the words to make statements. Use correct capitalization and punctuation.
1. classmate / is / Isabel’s / Tomas

Tomas is Isabel’s classmate.

2. wallet / this / is / my

3. backpack / is / your / that

4. a / room / messy / it / is

5. watch / my / expensive / isn’t

6. headphones / are / the / in / pocket / your

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Unscramble the words to make questions. Use correct capitalization and punctuation.
What is this?
1. what / this / is
2. new / is / that / laptop / a
3. sunglasses / are / those / your
4. comfortable / headphones / those / are
5. expensive / is / backpack / that
6. what / called / is / this / in English

B Look at the cues. Write complete answers for the questions in A.
It’s a wallet.
1. wallet
2. yes
3. no
4. yes
5. no
© National Geographic Learning
6. a gift card

T240 | UNIT 3 REVIEW

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 240 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 399 ────────

03
SPEAKING

A Teo is shopping for a gift. He asks the salesperson, Paula, questions about the items. Practice the
conversation with a partner. Then switch roles.

TEO: Are these headphones good?
PAULA: Yes, they’re excellent.
TEO: Are they a popular product?
PAULA: Yes, they are a very popular gift. They are inexpensive and easy to use.
TEO: Thanks a lot.
PAULA: My pleasure.

B Work in pairs. You are shopping and your partner is a salesperson. Choose an item from the box
below, or come up with your own idea, and ask your partner to tell you about it. Then ask questions.
Remember to thank your partner. Then switch roles.

backpack camera gift card laptop sunglasses
books coffee machine headphones phone watch

4
WRITING

A Look at the cues. Write a sentence using the plural of the word.
Those are new laptops.
1. new laptop
2. old dictionary
3. cool photo
4. great class
5. nice pen

5 EXAM PREPARATION: READING

A Read the text below. Then circle the best answer for each question.

From: jpetrarca@us*mail.com
To: tgonzales@peru*mail.com
Sent: Tuesday, August 19
© National Geographic LearningSubject: Hi from Colombia!
Hi Teresita,
I’m on vacation in Cartagena! I’m here with my roommate Elsa—she is Colombian, from Cali. This is a
beautiful city with many interesting things to see. It’s crowded and interesting. There are many buildings.
They are old and wonderful. I don’t speak Spanish, but Elsa does, and many Colombians speak
English. Cartagena is very safe, and there are many beautiful beaches. This vacation is fun!
Bye!

—Jen

UNIT 3 REVIEW | T241

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 241 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 400 ────────

1. What is Cartagena like?
3. Where is Jen?
a. Big and popular.
a. She is in Cali.

b. Beautiful and old.
b. She is at the beach.

c. Small and interesting.
c. She is in Cartagena.

d. Crowded and expensive.
d. She is in a boring city.

2. Where exactly is Elsa from?
a. Cartagena.

b. Cali.

c. Mexico.

d. Barranquilla.

6
EXAM PREPARATION: LISTENING

A Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and a question after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 11

1. What is the gift?
a. A wallet. b. Headphones. c. A watch. d. A gift card.

2. What are they talking about?
a. Electronics. b. Sports. c. Movies. d. Clothes.

3. What is lost?
a. A bus pass. b. A backpack. c. A wallet. d. A watch.

4. What is the product?
a. A ring. b. A camera. c. A map. d. An apple.

5. What does the woman have?
a. A book. b. A cell phone. c. A postcard. d. A T-shirt.

6. What does the man throw out?
a. A photo. b. A pen. c. A notebook. d. A key.

B Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and three questions after it. Circle the
appropriate answer for each question. 12

1. Where is the woman?
4. Where is the stuff in the box from?
a. At the library. c. At a museum.
a. Mexico City. c. Los Angeles.

b. In a store. d. In class.
b. London. d. New York.

2. Who is the gift for?
5. Who is in the picture?
© National Geographic Learning
a. Her mother. c. A friend.
a. A friend. c. A classmate.

b. A classmate. d. Her brother.
b. A teacher. d. A cousin.

3. What is the gift?
6. What does the man do with the picture?
a. A watch. c. A soccer ball.
a. He throws it out. c. He likes it.

b. A cell phone. d. A laptop.
b. He gives it to d. He keeps it.
the woman.

T242 | UNIT 3 REVIEW

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 242 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 401 ────────

UNIT 4 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Unscramble the words to make statements. Use correct capitalization and punctuation.
She is shopping for a phone.
1. shopping / is / she / for a phone
2. friend / texting / is / he / a
3. talking / is / he / on / phone / the
4. watching / she / TV / is
5. eating / they / are / fish

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Complete the conversation by writing questions.
how are you?
A: Hi Ana, (1.)

B: Hi Sofia. Not so good.

A: (2.)

B: I’m studying for an English test and it’s really hard.

A: (3.)

B: No, he’s American.

A: (4.)

B: I think he is from New York. So, (5.)

A: I’m taking four: math, engineering, science, and history.

3
SPEAKING

A In pairs, ask each other the questions below about your classes. Take notes.
1. How many classes are you taking this semester?

2. What classes are you taking?

3. Which classes are you taking on Mondays? And on Thursdays?

© National Geographic Learning
4. What are you majoring in?

5. How are you doing in your classes?

6. Why are you studying English?

B Read your notes. Tell the class about your partner.
UNIT 4 REVIEW | T243

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 243 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 402 ────────

4
WRITING

A In your notebook, write three sentences that describe what your partner is studying.

5
EXAM PREPARATION: LISTENING

A Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and a question after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 13

1. Who is Diego?
a. Her friend. b. Her class. c. Her favorite song. d. Her book.

2. What is Mike’s problem?
a. He has a test. b. His friend is sick. c. His bus is late. d. He is happy.

3. What are they talking about?
a. Sports. b. Classes. c. Food. d. Movies.

4. Is the woman trying to win a contest?
a. Yes, she is. b. No, the man is. c. No, she isn’t. d. No, her friend is.

5. What is the woman doing after class?
a. She’s working. b. She’s studying. c. She’s relaxing. d. She’s exercising.

6. What is Carlos doing?
a. He’s having a party. b. He’s talking to friends. c. He’s watching TV. d. He’s studying.

B Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and three questions after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 14

1. Who is Raul?
4. Who is talking?
a. Cecilia’s dad. c. Cecilia’s grandpa.
a. A soccer player. c. A bus driver.

b. Cecilia’s friend. d. Cecilia’s brother.
b. A coach. d. A teacher.

2. Does the woman know Cecilia?
5. What is the man talking about?
a. No, she doesn’t. c. Yes, she does.
a. English. c. History.

b. Mathematics. d. Chemistry.
b. Yes, she knows d. No, she’s in
Raul. class.
6. What does the class need to remember?
3. What are the woman and Cecilia doing
a. The assignment. c. A date.
together?
b. Spelling rules. d. A formula.
a. They are working. c. They are relaxing.

b. They are playing d. They are doing a
tennis. presentation.
© National Geographic Learning

T244 | UNIT 4 REVIEW

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 244 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 403 ────────

UNIT 5 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Unscramble the words to make statements. Use correct capitalization and punctuation.
They like Indian food.
1. like / they / food / Indian
2. drinks / she / coffee
3. does / eat / not / he / meat
4. eat / meals / snacks / healthy / between
5. soda / we / do / not / drink / a lot of

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Look at the cues. Write a Yes / No question for each. Use do or does.
Does he speak French?
1. he / speak / French
2. they / like / spicy food
3. the teacher / like / junk food
4. people / drink / six glasses of water / every day
5. he / eat / healthy food
6. you / take / vitamins / every day

B Look at the cues. Write full answers to the questions in A.
Yes, he speaks French.
1. (yes)
2. (no)
3. (yes)
4. (yes)
5. (yes)
6. (no)

3
WRITING

A Look at the words in the boxes. Write two or three sentences on a separate piece of paper about
three of the foods. Do you like the food? Why or why not?

burger and fries junk food salad    energy good / bad for you healthy taste
© National Geographic Learning
fruit pasta snack

UNIT 5 REVIEW | T245

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 245 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 404 ────────

4 SPEAKING

A Interview two classmates. Find out what food they like or dislike.

B You and a partner want to have lunch together. What kind of food do you like? Add some other
types of food on the lines below. Then decide on a place that you both want to go to.

salad
Chinese food    Mexican food

Do you like    Well, there’s a Chinese
Mexican food?    place near here.

No, not really. That sounds good.

5
EXAM PREPARATION: READING

A Circle the best answer for each question.
1. Do you like pasta and tomato sauce?
4. What do you have for breakfast?
a. No, I don’t like c. I drink a lot of
a. Eggs and coffee. c. Fried chicken and
junk food. soda.
cheese.

b. I’m trying to d. Yes! I like Italian
b. Soup and soda. d. Fruit and pasta.
lose weight. food.
5. What are two types of junk food?
2. Do you drink soda?
a. Fruit and cheese. c. Fries and soda.
a. Yes, I am. c. No, I doesn’t.
b. Juice and salad. d. Soup and bread.
b. No, I don’t. d. No, they don’t.
6. Do you eat snacks?
© National Geographic Learning
3. What can I get you?
a. No, I skip c. Yes, cheese tastes
breakfast. good.
a. Anything to drink? c. To go.

b. Yes, when I am d. No, it is high in
b. For here. d. I’d like a tuna
hungry. sugar.
sandwich, please.

T246 | UNIT 5 REVIEW

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 246 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 405 ────────

UNIT 6 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Circle the errors in the sentences. Rewrite the sentences correctly.
Alison lives with her parents.
1. Alison live with his parents.
2. Justin are close with his sister.
3. They loves her grandmother.
4. This are my families.
5. I has two sister and one brother.
6. We doesn’t have brother.

2 QUESTION FORMULATION

A Walk around the classroom and talk to your classmates about their families. Ask questions to find
one person that matches each description. Write that person’s name.

Find someone who . . . Name
1. has an older brother Juan
2. is an only child
Juan, do you have an    3. has a large family
older brother?    4. has a boyfriend or girlfriend

Yes. I actually have two!    5. is from a small family
6. has more than three siblings
(brothers or sisters)
7. is married
8. has more than twelve cousins

3
SPEAKING

A Lily is talking with Chen about her family. Practice the conversation with a partner.
Then switch roles.

LILY: I have a big family. I have two aunts and an uncle.
CHEN: Are they all married?
LILY: My aunts are married, but my uncle is single.
CHEN: Do your aunts have children?
© National Geographic Learning
LILY: Yes, Aunt Dora has two daughters and Aunt Eva has a son.
CHEN: Is your uncle seeing anyone?

UNIT 6 REVIEW | T247

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 247 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 406 ────────

Do you have any aunts
B Tell your partner about your family. Your partner
and uncles?
asks questions about your family members like those in A.
Then switch roles. Be prepared to tell the class about
Yes, I have three . . .
your partner’s family.

4 WRITING

A Write three or four sentences about your family.

5 EXAM PREPARATION: READING

A Read the text. Circle the best answer for each statement or question.

uncles, and cousins. I only have one brother, but I have
Hi Paula,
19 cousins!
How are you? I’m great! I’m really happy you’re my
Please tell me about yourself. Where are you from?
e-pal. Here are some things about me. I’m from
How old are you? Who’s in your family? What are you
Madrid. I love spicy food, ice cream, and sports.
studying?
I’m a business major.

OK, that’s all for now. It’s nice to meet you!
Let me tell you about my family. My father’s name is
Pedro and my mother’s name is Cristina. They’re really
Write soon!
nice. Also, I have a younger brother, Billy. He’s 17, and
Julia
he’s kind of a pain sometimes. I also have a lot of aunts,

1. What do you think an e-pal is?
4. Julia has a immediate family and
a extended family.
a. Someone you c. A family member.
know from school.
a. small; small c. big; small

b. A friend from the d. Someone you
b. small; big d. big; big
internet. are seeing.
5. The writer’s primary purpose is to:
2. Julia is probably years old.
a. Introduce herself c. Complain about
and ask about Billy.
a. 12. c. 15.
her e-pal.
b. 33. d. 19.
b. Describe her d. Practice her
3. When Julia says her brother is “kind of a
family. English.
pain,” what do you think she means?

a. They are best c. They both like
© National Geographic Learning
friends. ice cream.

b. They don’t always d. He is younger.
get along.

T248 | UNIT 6 REVIEW

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 248 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 407 ────────

6
EXAM PREPARATION: LISTENING

A Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and a question after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 15

1. What does the woman mean?
a. She doesn’t have any brothers and sisters. c. She doesn’t live with anyone.

b. She doesn’t have a boyfriend. d. She doesn’t go to school.

2. What is special about Hugo?
a. He has a younger brother. c. He doesn’t have a brother.

b. His brother is named Julian. d. He has a twin brother.

3. What does the man mean?
a. Does Laura speak with her c. Does Laura’s grandmother live in
grandmother often? the same city?

b. Does Laura live with her grandmother? d. Does Laura visit her grandmother?

4. What is the woman saying?
a. She is having a baby. c. Her friend is having a baby.

b. Her sister is having a baby. d. Her sister is getting married.

5. What does Ricardo say about his parents?
a. They have brothers and sisters. c. They don’t have brothers and sisters.

b. They have cousins. d. They are divorced.

6. What does the man mean?
a. The woman’s father lives alone. c. The woman’s father has a new wife.

b. The woman’s father is dating someone. d. The woman’s father isn’t married.

B Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and three questions after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 16

1. Where do the woman’s parents live?
4. Does the man have any brothers and
sisters?
a. In Trujillo. c. In Bolivia.
a. No, he’s an c. Yes, he has
b. In Arequipa. d. In Miami.
only child. cousins.
2. Is the woman married?
b. Yes, he’s d. No, he’s not
a. No, she doesn’t. c. Yes, she does.
divorced. married.
b. Yes, she is. d. No, she isn’t.
5. Does he like his cousins?
3. How many brothers and sisters does the
a. No, he isn’t. c. Yes, he does.
© National Geographic Learning
woman have?
b. Yes, he is. d. No, he doesn’t.
a. One. c. Three.
6. Who has three brothers?
b. Two. d. Five.
a. His grandmother. c. His father.

b. His aunt. d. His mother.

UNIT 6 REVIEW | T249

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 249 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 408 ────────

UNIT 7 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Complete each sentence with the correct form of the verb in parentheses.
watch
1. I (watch) movies with Maria on Saturdays.
2. She (go) for a long hike every spring.
3. They (take) a shower at 7:00 p.m.
4. We (wake up) at 10:00 a.m. on Sundays.
5. He (have) homework every day.
6. The classes (finish) at 3:45 in the afternoon.

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Complete each question with the correct question word from the box. Then ask and answer the
questions with a partner.

what when where who
Who
1. do you study with?
2. does your friend do on Monday mornings?
3. do we work online?
4. do you have English class?
5. does your friend go out with?
6. do your classmates study?

3
SPEAKING

A Circle two or three activities you want to do this weekend. Add your own ideas. Tell a partner about
the activities you picked.

go driving go to a concert go swimming go to the mall
go for a bike ride go to a friend’s house go to the beach go to the movies

B In pairs, make plans for the weekend. Together,
What do you want to    I don’t want to
do this weekend?    do that. Let’s
decide on two or three things you both want to do.
go running.
Be prepared to share your plans with the class.
Let’s go for a
© National Geographic Learningbike ride.
4 WRITING

A Write four sentences in your notebook about your plans for the weekend.

T250 | UNIT 7 REVIEW

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 250 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 409 ────────

5
EXAM PREPARATION: LISTENING

A Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and a question after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 17

4. When does the movie start?
1. What does the man want to do?
a. At 9:15. c. At 9:50.
a. He wants to c. He wants to
see a movie. go to a restaurant.
b. At 19:15. d. At 19:50.
b. He wants to d. He wants to
5. What does the woman want to do?
go to the gym. go for a bike ride.
a. Go for a walk. c. Study for a test.
2. What kind of movie does the woman want
b. Go to a movie. d. Go for a bike ride.
to see?
6. What does the man always do after class?
a. A romantic movie. c. A spy movie.
a. He does c. He goes out
b. A comedy. d. A superhero
homework. with friends.
movie.
b. He goes to d. He goes for
3. When does the woman work?
class. a walk.
a. Friday, Saturday, c. Saturday, Sunday,
and Sunday. and Monday.

b. Thursday, Friday, d. Sunday, Monday,
and Saturday. and Tuesday.

B Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and three questions after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 18

1. When does Josh get up?
4. Why does the woman like Mondays?
a. At 9:00. c. At 3:00.
a. She doesn’t c. She goes to
work. classes.
b. At 7:30. d. At 8:15.
b. She goes to d. She has a
2. What days does he work?
the movies. good job.
a. Mondays and c. Thursdays and
5. What does she usually do on her day off?
Wednesdays. Fridays.
a. She wakes c. She goes out
b. Saturdays and d. Tuesdays and
up early. with friends.
Sundays. Wednesdays.
b. She does d. She sleeps late.
3. Where does he work?
homework.
a. At a supermarket. c. At a department store.
6. What does she do on nice days?
b. At a gym. d. At a cinema.
a. She goes to c. She goes for
the movies. a bike ride.

b. She goes d. She goes out
© National Geographic Learningshopping. with friends.

UNIT 7 REVIEW | T251

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 251 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 410 ────────

UNIT 8 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Unscramble the words to make statements and questions. Use correct capitalization.
My birthday is on May 27th
1. on / May / birthday / is / 27th / my .
2. vacation / when / start / does / your ?
3. the / going / World Cup / to / I’m !
4. place / the / music / March / festival / takes / in .
5. tomorrow / a / there / parade / is .
6. Labor Day / you / do / when / celebrate ?

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Make questions with the words in the box. More than one question is possible at times.

athlete / compete / games musician / song / perform people / attend / festival
be / holiday parade / take place take / photos

people attend the festival
1. How many ?
2. When ?
3. How long ?
4. Where ?
5. How many ?
6. What ?

3
SPEAKING

A Ask a classmate about a festival he or she goes to. Follow
What is the name of
your festival?
these steps. Then tell your classmate about a festival you go to.
My festival is called
• Ask what the name of the festival is.
Inti Raymi.
• Ask where the festival takes place.
• Ask what people do, wear, eat, or drink at the festival.
• Ask how often the festival takes place.

B Tell the class about your classmate’s festival. Say when it takes
place. Say something about what people do at the festival.
© National Geographic LearningMiguel’s festival takes
place in February
or March.

T252 | UNIT 8 REVIEW

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 252 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 411 ────────

4
WRITING

What’s your favorite
A You are writing a story for your school’s website about special
celebration?
occasions in students’ lives. Write a few questions to ask a partner
about an annual event in his or her life. Ask and answer the questions
I love the annual
parade in my city.
with your partner. Take notes. Then write three sentences about your
partner’s event.
When does it take
place?
• Ask what it is and when and where it takes place.
• Ask how many people attend and how long it lasts.
• Ask what people do there.

5
EXAM PREPARATION: READING

A Circle the best answer for each question.
1. How many months are in a year?
a. Eight.

b. Four.

c. Twelve.

d. Ten.

2. Which sentence is the best description for Carnival?
a. Carnival is a music festival. It takes place in Cajamarca. It lasts two days.

b. Carnival is a festival that takes place every February. It lasts two weeks. It is also celebrated
in countries like Brazil and Colombia.

c. Carnival is on the eighth of February. It is a religious festival.

d. Carnival takes place in the winter. It is also celebrated in other countries, including China
and Mexico.

3. Which option best describes the World Cup?
a. The World Cup is an important sports festival. It takes place annually.

b. The World Cup takes place every year in South Africa. Thousands of people attend this
event.

c. The World Cup is an event that takes place every four years. In 2022, the World Cup takes
place in Qatar and lasts from November 21st until December 18th.

d. Don’t miss the next World Cup. Peru will win!

© National Geographic Learning

UNIT 8 REVIEW | T253

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 253 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 412 ────────

UNIT 9 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Rewrite each sentence with the frequency adverb in the correct position.
Linda often takes out the garbage.
1. Linda takes out the garbage. (often)
2. Tom is messy. (never)
3. Linda doesn’t make dinner. (usually)
4. Tom makes his bed. (hardly ever)
5. Linda does the dishes. (always)

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Unscramble the words to make questions.
What chores do you do on the weekend
1. What / chores / you / on the / do / weekend / do ?
2. When / your roommate / do / laundry / does ?
3. Do / you / every day / make / breakfast ?
4. When / dinner / make / does / your family ?
5. Does / brother / your / his room / clean ?
6. What / you / do / for breakfast / make ?

3
SPEAKING

A Take turns with a partner apologizing for a problem and accepting an apology. Choose a
problem from the box. Then use the language in the chart.

loud party messy kitchen talking on phone

Making an Apology Responding to an Apology
This kitchen is a mess!
(I’m) sorry.    Don’t worry (about it).
I’m sorry.
(I’m) sorry about that.    That’s OK / all right.

I’m really sorry. [stronger]    No problem.

B Act out your conversation for the class.

4 © National Geographic Learning
WRITING

A In your notebook, write three or four sentences. Answer this question: Where is a good place to go
with friends? Give two reasons. Use the language in the box.

Also, For one thing, For these reasons, In my opinion,

T254 | UNIT 9 REVIEW

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 254 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 413 ────────

5 EXAM PREPARATION: READING

A Read the following text. Then circle the best answer for each question.

Name: Laura

Birthday: May 20th, 1996

Hometown: Miami

Typical weekend: I like to relax, but I am very active, so I like to wake up early and do
things. I usually spend time with friends and family. I like to go dancing and shopping
at the mall, but I don’t go often; I am not working, so I don’t have a lot of money.
Instead, I do other activities that I don’t have to pay for, like going for bike rides.

Typical weekday: Study, study, study! I am a chemistry major. I have a lot of homework!

Doesn’t like: Doing chores . . . especially doing the laundry!

1. Who does Laura usually spend time with?
4. Why doesn’t she have a lot of money?
a. Her roommate.
a. She isn’t working.

b. Her friends and family.
b. She isn’t interested in it.

c. Her boyfriend.
c. She likes riding bikes.

d. Her classmates.
d. She doesn’t know.

2. When does Laura study?
5. What is Laura studying?
a. Mondays.
a. Homework.

b. On the weekends.
b. Chemistry.

c. Saturdays.
c. Music.

d. From Monday to Friday.
d. English.

3. What does Laura like to do?
6. What doesn’t she like doing?
a. She likes to go to the movies.
a. Homework.

b. She likes to go to cafes.
b. Relaxing.

c. She likes to go dancing and shopping.
c. Shopping.

d. She likes doing chores.
d. Chores.

6
EXAM PREPARATION: LISTENING

A Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and a question after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 19
© National Geographic Learning
1. How much is the man going to spend?    2. What chores does Marcos do?
a. $0.    a. He takes out the trash.

b. $25.    b. He does the laundry.

c. $50.    c. He does the laundry and takes out the

d. $100.    trash.
d. He does the laundry and does the dishes.

UNIT 9 REVIEW | T255

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 255 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 414 ────────

3. What should the man speaking do?
5. Why is the man angry?
a. Take her to a nice restaurant and
a. His roommate doesn’t help with the
pick up the bill.
housework.

b. Tell her the truth.
b. He needs a new apartment.

c. Take her on a blind date.
c. He doesn’t have a roommate.

d. Take her to a movie.
d. He doesn’t like to do housework.

4. Why is the woman sorry?
6. Who is the woman dating?
a. She doesn’t have any money.
a. Antonio.

b. She is late.
b. Carlos.

c. She doesn’t like her meal.
c. Felipe.

d. She doesn’t like the restaurant.
d. Nobody.

B Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and three questions after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 20

1. Does the woman date?
4. Who is the woman talking about?
a. Yes.
a. Her friend.

b. Sometimes.
b. Her roommate.

c. Usually.
c. Her boyfriend.

d. No.
d. Her cousin.

2. Who does she spend time with?
5. Where does Liz usually study?
a. Her friends.
a. In the library.

b. Her family.
b. In the living room.

c. Her classmates.
c. In the kitchen.

d. Her roommate.
d. In her room.

3. Where does she go with her friends?
6. When does she wash the dishes?
a. To a restaurant.
a. Every morning.

b. To a movie.
b. After she cooks breakfast.

c. To a party.
c. After she cooks dinner.

d. To a club.
d. On the weekends.

© National Geographic Learning

T256 | UNIT 9 REVIEW

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 256 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 415 ────────

UNIT 10 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Complete the sentences with the correct form of there is or there are.
There isn’t
1. (not) a TV in the bedroom.    4. two windows in the kitchen.
2. some chairs in the dining room.    5. (not) any rugs in the living room.
3. (not) a shower in the bathroom.    6. a table in the dining room.

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Make questions with the words in the box. Work with a partner. Ask and answer the questions. Give
answers that are true for you.

bedroom / apartment color / bedroom furniture / living room
closets / house favorite color / your TV / your

bedrooms are in your apartment
1. How many ?    4. Is there ?
2. Where ?    5. Are there ?
3. What ?    6. What ?

3
SPEAKING

A Mrs. Cruz wants to buy some things for her family’s new apartment. Her friend, Paula, is selling
some things. She is talking on the telephone with Paula. Practice the conversation with a partner.
Then switch roles.

MRS. CRUZ: I need a microwave.
PAULA: My microwave is only $40. Do you need a refrigerator?
MRS. CRUZ: No, but I need things for the living room.
PAULA: I have some comfortable chairs.
MRS. CRUZ: What color are they?
PAULA: They’re red and blue.

B Now replace the items in the conversation with words from the box. You may need to make some
additional changes. Practice the new conversation with a partner. Then switch roles.

air conditioner bed bookshelf sofa table TV
© National Geographic Learning
4
WRITING

A Write a short paragraph in your notebook. Describe a room in your apartment. Use the words in the box.
bright colorful comfortable messy noisy relaxing small

UNIT 10 REVIEW | T257

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 257 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 416 ────────

5
EXAM PREPARATION: LISTENING

A Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and a question after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 21

1. How big is Pablo’s apartment?
4. Why doesn’t the man like the sofa?
a. It has four rooms.
a. It’s too small.

b. It has two rooms.
b. It’s ugly.

c. It has three rooms and a balcony.
c. It’s really big.

d. It has six rooms.
d. It isn’t comfortable.

2. Who is good for this apartment?
5. Who has free wi-fi in their apartment?
a. A family with a dog.
a. The woman.

b. An older married couple (grandparents).
b. The man.

c. One young woman.
c. The man and the woman.

d. Two young men.
d. Nobody.

3. How does Lisa feel about her apartment?
6. Why does the woman like her living room?
a. She doesn’t like it.
a. It has a balcony.

b. She likes it.
b. It has a lot of light.

c. An air conditioner.
c. It has a big TV.

d. A garage.
d. It has two closets.

B Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and three questions after it. Circle the
appropriate answer for each question. 22

1. What color is the living room now?
4. What is the man looking for?
a. Green.
a. A new house.

b. Orange.
b. A new sofa.

c. Blue.
c. A new apartment.

d. White.
d. A washing machine.

2. Why does the woman want to paint the living
5. How big is the apartment in the woman’s
room?
building?

a. The color now is boring.
a. It has two bedrooms and one bathroom.

b. The color now is relaxing.
b. It has one bedroom and one bathroom.

c. The color now is too strong.
c. It has two bedrooms and two bathrooms.

d. The color now is pretty.
d. It has three bedrooms and two
bathrooms.
3. What color are they going to try?
6. Does the man want to look at the
a. Blue.
© National Geographic Learning
apartment?
b. Purple.
a. Yes, he does.
c. Orange.
b. No, he doesn’t.
d. Green.
c. He doesn’t know.

d. Maybe he does.

T258 | UNIT 10 REVIEW

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 258 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 417 ────────

UNIT 11 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Circle the correct word(s) to complete each sentence.
1. I want / want to this dress. It’s pretty.
2. Berta has / has to buy some new sandals.
3. We want / want to get those cool jeans.
4. You don’t have / don’t have to buy a warm coat. You have one already.
5. Yuki has / has to wear a uniform to work.

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Make questions with the words in the box.
are / those sneakers have / in your closet wear / work
buy / cool clothes need / pairs of sunglasses

do you wear to work
1. What ?
2. How many ?
3. Where ?
4. What ?
5. How much ?

B Work with a partner. Ask and answer the questions. Give answers that are true for you.
1. What do you wear on the weekend?
2. Where do you buy your clothes?
3. What kind of sneakers do you wear?
4. How many pairs of shoes do you have?
5. What do you wear to work?

3
SPEAKING

A You have $200 to buy some new clothes. Look at the items in the box below. Circle the things you
decide to buy with your $200.

a blouse $40 a jacket $25 a pair of jeans $45 a tie $15
© National Geographic Learninga coat $70 a pair of boots $50 a suit $95 a T-shirt $10

UNIT 11 REVIEW | T259

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 259 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 418 ────────

B Now discuss the clothes you want to buy with a partner. Be prepared to share your partner’s
choices with the class.

What do you    How much    What else do
want to buy?    is it?    you want?
I want to get    It’s $70.
a new coat.

4
WRITING

A Pick a classmate and write a description of what he or she is wearing in your notebook.
Use the words in the box. Do not say the person’s name. Then read your description to a partner.
Can he or she guess who you are describing? Finally, listen to your partner’s description and guess
the classmate he or she is describing.

baggy / loose fitted / tight
casual dressy / formal
heavy light
long short

5
EXAM PREPARATION: READING

A Circle the best response for each question or statement.
1. Who is the girl wearing the pink sweater?
4. Does this shirt fit?
a. I like that sweater a lot.
a. It matches your jacket.

b. That’s my cousin, Liliana.
b. No, it’s too long.

c. That sweater doesn’t fit.
c. Yes, that’s a great outfit.

d. She’s wearing a pink sweater and a pair
d. It’s too formal.
of jeans.
5. What should a woman wear to a formal job
interview?
2. What do you wear at home?
a. Shorts and a T-shirt.
a. A suit and a tie.

b. A nice blouse and jeans.
b. Baggy shorts and a T-shirt.

c. A long skirt, a blouse, and a jacket.
c. A dress and high heels.

d. A suit and a pair of sneakers.
d. A coat and a hat.

3. Finish this phrase: a pair of . . .
6. It’s cold outside!
a. gloves / pants / socks.
a. I’m wearing shorts and sandals.
© National Geographic Learning
b. shoes / glasses / scarves.
b. I’m wearing a uniform.

c. necklaces / pants / earrings.
c. I’m wearing a scarf and gloves.

d. shorts / uniforms / heels.
d. I’m wearing a T-shirt and jeans.

T260 | UNIT 11 REVIEW

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 260 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 419 ────────

UNIT 12 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Unscramble the words to make statements. Use correct capitalization.
You can begin work next week
1. can / work / week / begin / you / next .
2. remember / names / I / well / can’t .
3. to / talk / Lee / other / can / people / easily .
4. we / stories / can / interesting / tell .
5. can’t / Chinese / she / any / speak .

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Make questions with the words in the box and can. Work with a partner. Ask and answer the
questions.

follow / directions speak / language tell / interesting stories
play / instrument start / job

can you start the job
1. When ?
2. Which ?
3. How well ?
4. Who ?
5. What ?

3
SPEAKING

A Look at the job advertisement below. What do you think about this job? Do you meet the job
requirements? Discuss with a partner.

GENERAL HOSPITAL
Office receptionist needed, part time

Responsibilities:
• Answer phones
You have to answer
the telephone.
• Greet people

Pay: $1900 a month
Good! I love to talk
© National Geographic Learningon the phone!
Job Requirements:
• Must be organized
• High school graduate
• Know how to use computers
• Previous office experience

UNIT 12 REVIEW | T261

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 261 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 420 ────────

4
WRITING

A Write a short paragraph about your work goals in your notebook. Answer these questions:
• What can you do? (Write two or three things.)
• What are your goals?
• What do you want to do?

5 EXAM PREPARATION: READING

A Read the email. Circle the best answer for each question.

From: Julio Varela
To: Mary Jordan, Inca Tours
Subject: Job Application

Dear Ms. Jordan,

I would like to apply for a job as a tour guide at Inca Tours. I have a Bachelor’s Degree
in Spanish from the University of Miami and I am self-employed as a translator for travel
magazines. I am bilingual in Spanish and English. I also have three years of experience
as a flight attendant for United Airlines.

I am outgoing and hardworking, and I love meeting new people. I think I am the perfect
person for your company.

Sincerely,

Julio Varela

c. Spanish and Chinese.
1. What skills does Julio have?
d. English and Portuguese.
a. He wants to live in Peru.
4. What is Julio like as a person?
b. He wants to be a tour guide.
a. He’s really cool and fun.
c. He can speak Quechua.
b. He’s hardworking and outgoing.
d. He’s bilingual, he has a college
degree, and he has experience
c. He’s very handsome. He’s 28 years old.
in the travel industry.
d. He’s interesting.
2. What is Julio’s job now?
5. Why does he want to change jobs?
a. He’s a flight attendant.
© National Geographic Learning
a. His job is really dangerous.
b. He’s a translator.
b. He is a volunteer. He has to make
c. He’s a tour guide.
money.
d. He’s a pilot.
c. Right now he’s self-employed. It pays
him well, but he’s very outgoing, and he
3. What languages can Julio speak?
wants to work with people.
a. English and Spanish.
d. Here’s his card. It has his work email and
b. Spanish and Quechua.
phone number.

T262 | UNIT 12 REVIEW

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 262 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 421 ────────

6
EXAM PREPARATION: LISTENING

A Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and a question after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 23

1. What is the man’s job like?
4. When can the man work?
a. Exciting.
a. Every day.

b. Interesting.
b. Any morning.

c. Boring.
c. On the weekend.

d. Hard.
d. Only from
Monday to Friday.
2. What is the woman’s job?
5. What is the man’s job?
a. Hairstylist.
a. Waiter.
b. Doctor.
b. Chef.
c. Police officer.
c. Programmer.
d. Lawyer.
d. Dentist.
3. What kind of job does the woman want to
find?
6. What job can the woman get?
a. Internship.
a. Programmer.

b. Full-time.
b. Telemarketer.

c. Part-time.
c. Nurse.

d. Volunteer.
d. Chef.

B Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and three questions after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 24

1. Where does the man work?
4. What job does the man want to find?
a. At a hotel.
a. Volunteer job.

b. At a school.
b. Delivery person.

c. In a shop.
c. Teacher.

d. At a hospital.
d. Part-time job.

2. What is his job like?
5. Where is the man working as a volunteer?
a. Dangerous and fun.
a. In the country.

b. Difficult and interesting.
b. In a store.

c. Boring and hard.
c. In a hospital.

d. Cool and easy.
d. At a school.

3. When does he work?
6. Who does he love working with?
a. Usually in the morning.
a. Kids.

b. Some weekends.
© National Geographic Learningb. Teachers.
c. Usually at night.
c. Volunteers.

d. Every day.
d. People.

UNIT 12 REVIEW | T263

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 263 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 422 ────────

PROCESS WRITING 1

A Complete the sentences with the words in the box.
first name He’s last name Our student

first name
1. Her is Kim. 4. last name is Ramos.
2. She’s a . 5. a student.
3. Their is Jimenez.

B Circle the correct verb form to complete each sentence.
1. My favorite colors is / are red and blue. 4. His favorite sports is / are soccer and tennis.
2. Our favorite teacher is / are Mr. Diaz. 5. We is / are friends with Lin.
3. She is / are friends with you.

C Use the information to write six complete sentences that are true for you.
1. first name
2. last name
3. friends with
4. favorite movie
5. favorite band

D Choose the correct answer to each question.
CONTRACTIONS
1. Is Jorge a student? a. Yes, he is. b. Yes, they are.
Use contractions in
informal writing to make
2. Are you in this class? a. No, it isn’t. b. No, I’m not.
some words shorter.
3. Is FC Barcelona your favorite team? a. Yes, I am. b. Yes, it is.
I am = I’m
4. Are they friends with Marco? a. Yes, they are. b. Yes, they’re not.
he is = he’s
we are = we’re
5. Is Pia her real name? a. Yes, it is. b. Yes, it isn’t.

E Use the information to write Yes / No questions for a new friend. Begin each question with Is or Are.
1. student
2. friends with
3. from this city
4. favorite TV shows
5. favorite sports player
6. favorite singer

© National Geographic Learning
F Match the questions and answers.
b
1. Who’s with him? a. She’s at home.
2. Is John from Australia? b. Eduardo is with him.
3. Where’s Rosa? c. It’s in France.
4. Are they from China? d. Yes, he’s Australian.
5. Where’s Paris? e. We’re in Brazil.
6. Where are we? f. No, they’re Japanese.

T264 | PROCESS WRITING 1

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 264 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 423 ────────

G Complete the text with is, it’s, or are.
It’s
My favorite city is Tokyo. (1.) a big city in Japan. (2.) a busy and

exciting place. The parks (3.) beautiful and the buildings (4.)

really interesting. Tokyo (5.) famous for fashion. My favorite place in the city is

Shinjuku. (6.) very crowded, but lots of fun!

H Write three or four sentences about your favorite city. Remember to
ADJECTIVES
use adjectives.
An adjective usually comes
before the noun and gives
us more information about it.
exciting place
beautiful parks
interesting buildings

I Unscramble the words to make questions.
Are those my sunglasses?
1. those / sunglasses / Are / my
2. laptop / to use / Is / easy / that
3. messy / that / Is / classroom
4. your / these / Are / headphones
5. cheap / boots / those / Are
6. TV / expensive / this / Is

J Complete the product review with the words in the box.
favorite It’s That These This

This
(1.) is my new backpack. It’s an expensive product, but I like it. There are many
good things about it. My (2.) thing is the color! (3.) blue is popular
now. (4.) pockets are very big, too. I keep my books and headphones in them.
(5.) easy to carry. I like it! ★★★★★

K Choose a product below and write a short review of it. Write four sentences about the product in
your notebook.

• a laptop    • a wallet    • a watch
• a phone    • a camera    • your idea

© National Geographic Learning

PROCESS WRITING 1 | T265

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 265 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 424 ────────

PROCESS WRITING 2

A Write the present continuous form of the verb in parentheses. Use contractions.
’s not studying /
1. She for her test. (NOT study)
isn’t studying
2. I on the phone to him. (talk)
3. We for a new laptop. (shop)
4. They TV together. (NOT watch)
5. He to the library. (go)

B Circle the correct options to complete the email.

Hi Diego,

How are you? I’m studying in London (1.) that term / this term. It’s a cool city!
(2.) I’m not major / I’m not majoring in business. I’m (3.) taking classes / taking class
in history and art for fun. History is my favorite subject. Oh, and (4.) I prepare / I’m preparing
for the TOEFL exam, too! What about you, Diego? What (5.) are you doing / do you doing?
Write soon!

Juan

C Write a short message to a friend including the information below.
• something you are doing today    • what your major is
• something you are not doing today    • what your favorite subject is

D Complete the sentences using the information in parentheses.
doesn’t eat
1. She cheese. (✗ eat)    4. You spinach salad. (✗ like)
2. He coffee. (✓ like)    5. Valerie coffee. (✓ drink)
3. We rice and beans. (✓ eat)    6. I vegetable soup. (✗ like)

E Use the cues to write questions.
Does she eat healthy foods?
1. she / eat / healthy foods Yes, she does.
2. he / skip / breakfast No, he doesn’t.
3. you / eat / junk food Yes, I do.
4. she / take / vitamins No, she doesn’t.
© National Geographic Learning
5. they / want / a snack No, they don’t.

T266 | PROCESS WRITING 2

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 266 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 425 ────────

F Write answers that are true for you. Write complete sentences.
1. What is your favorite food and your favorite drink?
2. What food do you not eat?
3. What drink do you not like?
4. Do you eat lots of foods that are good for you?
5. Do you like drinks that are bad for you?
6. Do you eat healthy foods when you want a snack?

G Read the text. Then complete the sentences using the words in the box.
Simon has a new girlfriend. He’s seeing my
POSSESSIVE NOUNS
friend, Maria. Maria has an interesting family.
Remember . . .
Her parents, Jack and Kate, aren’t married
We add ’s to singular nouns:
anymore. Maria’s dad, Jack, is single now. Her
my mom’s phone (one mom)
mom, Kate, is remarried to Mike. Maria’s stepfather,
Mike, has a daughter named Lucy. Lucy is 28, and
We add ’ to plural nouns:
she’s married. Lucy’s husband is named Bill.
the teachers’ room (more than one teacher)
Simon, Maria, Jack, Kate, Mike, Lucy, and Bill
are having dinner together this week.

daughter husband married parents seeing single

seeing
1. Simon is Maria.
2. Maria’s aren’t married now.
3. Maria’s dad is .
4. Maria’s mom is .
5. Bill is Lucy’s .
6. Lucy is Mike’s .

H Write a short paragraph about your family. Use the model in G.

© National Geographic Learning

PROCESS WRITING 2 | T267

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 267 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 426 ────────

PROCESS WRITING 3

A Complete the sentences with at, in, on, or from.
at
1. He wakes up 6:45. 4. I go running the afternoon.
2. We go to school 8:00 to 3:30. 5. Your classes start 8:15.
3. They go to the movies Fridays. 6. She does her homework weekdays.

B Write answers that are true for you. Write complete sentences.
1. Who do you meet on the weekends?
2. What do you do on Saturdays?
3. When do you exercise?
4. Where do you go shopping for clothes?
5. When do you go out with your friends?
6. What do you do in the evenings?

C Unscramble the words to make statements.
It’s on May 24th.
1. May / on / 24th / It’s
2. birthday / on / Her / March / is / 12th
3. in / vacation / the / Our / big / is / spring
4. 3rd / is / party / His / on / June
5. December / is / on / 31st / New Year’s Eve
6. summer / We / family party / in / the / a / have

D Complete the text with the words from the box.
attend events every year festival March perform

PREPOSITIONS OF TIME
South by Southwest (SXSW) is a big international
Remember to use:
festival
(1.) . It takes place in Austin, Texas,
on for a clear date: on October 12th /
on my birthday
(2.) in the spring, usually in
in for a longer period: in the morning /
(3.) . Thousands of people
in April
(4.) South by Southwest to watch
at for a clear time: at 2:30 / at noon
their favorite singers (5.) . People
can also see new and interesting movies at SXSW.
There are other (6.) , too; for
example, talks about technology are very popular
there. Don’t miss SXSW next year!
© National Geographic Learning

T268 | PROCESS WRITING 3

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 268 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 427 ────────

E Write four or five sentences about your favorite festival, or a festival you want to attend.
Use the questions to help you.

• What’s the name of the festival?    • What happens at the festival?
• How often does it take place?    • Why do you like this festival?
• How long does it last?

F Use the cues to write complete sentences.
Ken always makes breakfast in the morning.
1. Ken / always / make breakfast / the morning
2. Ana / never / do the laundry / weekends
3. Emre / not usually / eat lunch / home
4. Celina / hardly ever / clean the common areas / the evening
5. Mauricio / sometimes / do the dishes / after dinner
6. Tara / not always / make noise / the afternoon

G Choose the correct word or phrase to complete the text.
(1.) Also, / In my opinion, a good place to (2.) meet / know someone special is at an evening
class. (3.) For one thing, / For these two reasons, you can take a class in something you
already enjoy, like web design or dancing. (4.) Also, / Always, you can find people with the same
interests as you. You can (5.) break up / hang out after class, and if there’s someone you like, you
can (6.) ask / go him or her on a date. It’s nice to be (7.) single / married!

H What is a good activity to do with a friend on the weekend? Where is a good place to go? Write a
short paragraph with your own ideas. Use the words and phrases to help you.

Verbs Adjectives Useful Phrases

go out    good    In my opinion, . . .
ask / invite someone out    nice    For one thing, . . .
meet someone    special    Also, . . .
hang out    fun    For these reasons, I think . . .
expensive

© National Geographic Learning

PROCESS WRITING 3 | T269

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 269 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 428 ────────

PROCESS WRITING 4

A Write answers using the information in parentheses. Write complete sentences.
1. Is there an elevator at your apartment?
4. How many sofas are in the living room?
No, there isn’t.
(no)
(one)

2. How many bathrooms are there in your
5. Is there a closet in the bedroom?
house?
(yes)
(two)
6. Are there many bedrooms upstairs?
3. Are there any chairs in the dining room?
(no)
(yes)

B Complete the sentences with too or very. Sometimes both options are possible.
too
1. We’re tired to paint the    4. I’m angry to call him!
walls now.    5. There are many stairs to
2. The dark blue sofa is    climb.
uncomfortable.    6. It’s difficult to choose the
3. I have a big home office.    right color!

C Now write a short paragraph (4–5 sentences) about your home. Describe the rooms, the things in
them, and the colors using there is / are and too / very.

D Circle the correct word(s) to complete the sentences.
1. I want / want to wear these blue jeans.    4. She wants / wants to change her dress.
2. We have / have to the same brown tie!    5. Kelly has / has to a cool pair of sandals.
3. I have / have to buy a new suit.    6. Boris wants / wants to a pair of sunglasses
for Christmas.

E Correct one error in each sentence. If there is no error, write correct.
1. I have a new shoes at home.    4. He wants to put on a sandals.
I have new shoes at home.

2. She’s buying five jewelry.    5. We can buy two more clothes.

3. Your jeans are too baggy.    6. These shoes are very dressy.
© National Geographic Learning
COUNT AND NONCOUNT NOUNS
Don’t place a number in front of    Place a number in front of count
noncount nouns:    nouns:
• a lot of clothing    • two skirts
• some furniture    • four T-shirts
• a little information    • nine belts

T270 | PROCESS WRITING 4

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 270 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 429 ────────

F Write three sentences that are true for you. Describe what you are wearing today. What do you wear
every day? What do you want to buy next?

G Match the answers to the interview questions.

a. I make $23 an hour. b. I work 15 hours a week. c. I’m doing an internship.
d. It’s hard sometimes, but it’s interesting. e. I want to get work experience in marketing.
f. Yes, I can. g. I work part time at a marketing company.

c
1. What are you doing right now?
2. Where do you work?
3. What’s that like?
4. How many hours do you work?
5. How much do you make?
6. What’s your goal?
7. Can you drive a car?

H Answer the questions above with your own information.

I Write a short paragraph about what you are doing right now, and what you hope to do in the future.
Use the information in H.

© National Geographic Learning

PROCESS WRITING 4 | T271

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 271 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 430 ────────

Supplementary Content Audio Scripts

Track 1
Track 8

1. Look at Unit 1, page 10.
1. Dictionary 2. Bulletin board 3. Eraser 4. Pen
2. Listen to the conversation.
5. Window 6. Door 7. Pencil 8. Desk 9. Board
10. Textbook 11. Screen 12. Keyboard
3. Work by yourself / in pairs / in groups.
4. Sit down. / Stand up.
5. Open / Close your book / the door / the window.
Track 9
6. Repeat after me / the recording.
1.
Woman: What’s your ID number?
Track 2
Man: It’s 973880.
1. Practice 2. Number 3. Read 4. Write 5. Match
What is the man’s ID number?
6. Check 7. Circle 8. Underline 9. Complete
2.
10. Unscramble
Man: What’s your favorite sport?
Woman: Basketball is my favorite sport.
Track 3
What is the woman’s favorite sport?
1. What does notebook mean?
3.
2. What does door mean?
Man: What’s your first name?
3. What does pencil mean?
4. Can I use the pen, please?
Woman: It’s Carmen.
5. Can I please go to the restroom?
What is the woman’s first name?
6. Can I leave for a minute, please?
4.
Woman: What’s your last name?
Track 4
Man: It’s Sato.
A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M,
What is the man’s last name?
N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, X, Y, Z
5.
Man: What’s your nickname?
Track 5
Woman: It’s Fina.
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
What is the woman’s nickname?
zero one two three four five six seven eight nine ten
6.
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
Woman: What’s your email address?
eleven twelve thirteen fourteen fifteen sixteen seventeen
Man: patrick.jones@inmail.com
18 19 20
eighteen nineteen twenty
What is the man’s email address?

Track 6
Track 10
1. Hi, my name is Andrea.
Conversation 1.
2. Hello, I’m Tomás.
Woman: What is your first name?
3. This is Cristina.
Man: Federico.
4. Hi, Cristina. I’m Roberto.
5. It’s nice to meet you, Roberto.
Woman: And what is your nickname?
6. Nice to meet you, too.
Man: It’s Fede.
Woman: What’s your ID number?
Track 7
Man: It’s 775301.
4:00 AM – 12:00 noon
1.
Good morning, Mrs. Pine.
What’s the man’s first name?
Good-bye.
2.
What’s the man’s nickname?
© National Geographic Learning
12:01 PM – 6:00 PM
3.
Good afternoon, Ms. Baker.
What’s the man’s ID number?
Good-bye.
See you this evening.
Conversation 2.
See you tonight.
Man: What is your favorite sport?
6:01 PM – 11:00 PM
Woman: Soccer.
Good evening, Mr. Jones.
Man: What is your favorite team?
Good night.
Woman: Real Madrid is my favorite team.
See you tomorrow.
Man: And who is your favorite player?
Woman: Sergio Ramos is my favorite player.

T272 | SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 272 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 431 ────────

Supplementary Content Audio Scripts

4.
Conversation 2.
What’s the woman’s favorite sport?
Woman: John, what’s in this box?
5.
Man: It’s stuff from Los Angeles. Look inside.
What’s the woman’s favorite team?
Woman: Wow, I like this picture.
6.
Man: Yeah, it’s pretty good. That’s Angela. She’s a
Who’s the woman’s favorite player?
friend.
Woman: Just a friend?
Track 11
Man: OK, a special friend . . . She’s important to me.
1.
Woman: I see. So, let’s keep the picture, right?
Woman: Those look expensive!
Man: Right.
Man: I don’t know. They’re a gift from my parents.
4.
Woman: Cool. Is the sound good?
Where is the stuff in the box from?
What is the gift?
5.
2.
Who is in the picture?
Man: I like this laptop.
6.
Woman: Look at this tablet—it’s cool!
What does the man do with the picture?
Man: I don’t like the headphones.
Track 13
What are they talking about?
3.
1.
Woman: Oh, no! Where’s my wallet?
Man: What are you doing, Marta?
Man: Is it in your backpack?
Woman: I’m texting my friend Diego.
Woman: No, it isn’t!
Who is Diego?
What is lost?
2.
Woman: Mike, are you coming to class this morning?
4.
Man: I love the new XTR-5000! It takes photos and
Man: Yes, I’m waiting for the bus now. But it’s late!
videos. It’s small and light. And it’s only $50.
What is Mike’s problem?
It’s a great gift.
3.
What is the product?
Man: What are you studying this year?
5.
Woman: English and mathematics.
Woman: What’s in this box?
What are they talking about?
Man: It’s a T-shirt from Paris.
4.
Woman: It’s cool.
Woman: Leah is trying to win a graphic design contest.
What does the woman have?
Man: That’s really interesting.
6.
Is the woman trying to win a contest?
Man: What’s that?
5.
Woman: It’s an old photo of me. It’s not very good.
Man: Barbara, what are you doing after class?
Throw it out.
Woman: I’m meeting my chemistry study group.
Man: OK.
What is the woman doing after class?
What does the man throw out?
6.
Woman: Carlos, are you having a party? I can hear a lot of
Track 12
voices!
Man: No, Mom, I’m not. It’s just the TV.
Conversation 1.
What is Carlos doing?
Man: Hello. Can I help you?
Woman: Yes. I need a graduation gift.
© National Geographic Learning
Track 14
Man: OK. Who is the gift for?
Woman: It’s for a friend. He really likes sports.
Conversation 1.
Man: I see. This sports watch is a very popular gift.
Woman: Hey, Raul, what are you doing?
Woman: That’s a good idea.
Man: I’m texting my friend Cecilia. We’re taking history
together.
1.
Where is the woman?
Woman: Oh, I know her. She’s doing a presentation with
2.
me in English class.
Who is the gift for?
1.
3.
Who is Raul?
What is the gift?

SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT AUDIO SCRIPTS | T273

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 273 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 432 ────────

Supplementary Content Audio Scripts

2.
2.
Does the woman know Cecilia?
Is the woman married?
3.
3.
What are the woman and Cecilia doing together?
How many brothers and sisters does the woman have?

Conversation 2.
Conversation 2.
Man: Class, today we are studying the present
Woman: Do you have any brothers and sisters?
continuous in English. You can use the present
Man: No, I’m an only child. But I have eight cousins.
continuous to talk about actions that are
Woman: Wow! That’s a lot of cousins!
happening right now. Remember, there are some
Man: Yeah, we’re very close. My dad is from a big
spelling changes in the present continuous. For
family though. He has three brothers and two
example, with “take,” you drop the final “e” before
sisters.
you add “-ing.”
4.
4.
Does the man have any brothers and sisters?
Who is talking?
5.
5.
Does he like his cousins?
What is the man talking about?
6.
6.
Who has three brothers?
What does the class need to remember?

Track 17
Track 15
1.
1.
Man: Do you have plans after school?
Man: Are you dating anyone?
Woman: No, I don’t. Why?
Woman: No, I’m single.
Man: Why don’t we get something to eat?
What does the woman mean?
What does the man want to do?
2.
Woman: Hugo, do you have a younger brother?
2.
Woman: I’m seeing a movie later. Do you want to come?
Man: Yes, I do. His name is Julian—he’s my twin!
Man: Sure. Let’s see that new super hero movie.
What is special about Hugo?
Woman: I don’t really want to see that . . . What about a
3.
spy movie?
Man: Laura, are you close to your grandmother?
What kind of movie does the woman want to see?
Woman: Yes, we talk every weekend.
3.
What does the man mean?
Man: When do you usually work?
4.
Woman: I work on Saturday, Sunday, and Monday.
Man: You look happy, Patricia.
Man: Wow! You work every weekend?
Woman: I am! I got a text from my sister and I’m going to
be an aunt!
When does the woman work?
What is the woman saying?
4.
Man: The movie starts at 9:15.
5.
Woman: Ricardo, do you have any cousins?
Woman: At 9:50? That’s too late!
Man: No, I don’t. Both my parents were only children.
Man: No, at 9:15.
What does Ricardo say about his parents?
When does the movie start?
6.
5.
Woman: My mother and father are divorced.
Woman: Are you free this weekend?
Man: And you have a stepmother named Liza, right?
Man: Yes, I am. What do you want to do?
What does the man mean?
Woman: Let’s go for a bike ride.
© National Geographic Learning
What does the woman want to do?
Track 16
6.
Woman: What do you do after class?
Conversation 1.
Man: I always do homework, and sometimes I go out
Woman: I have a big family, but I don’t see my relatives a
with friends.
lot. I live in Arequipa with my husband, but my
Woman: Where do you go with your friends?
parents live in Bolivia and my grandparents live in
Trujillo. My three older brothers live in Lima, and
What does the man always do after class?
my two sisters live in Miami.
1.
Where do the woman’s parents live?

T274 | SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 274 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 433 ────────

Supplementary Content Audio Scripts

5.
Track 18
Man: My roommate never helps with the housework!
Conversation 1.
The house is a mess.
Man: My friend Josh is a very busy guy. From Monday
Woman: Do you ask him to help?
to Friday, he gets up at 7:30 and goes to school
Man: Of course! He always says that he’s too busy.
at 8:15. His classes start at 9:00 and finish at
Why is the man angry?
3:00. After class, he does homework. He also
works at a department store on Saturdays and
6.
Sundays.
Man: So . . . um . . . are you dating anyone?
1.
Woman: No, I’m not, Carlos. I want to, but . . .
When does Josh get up?
Man: Do you want to meet my friend, Antonio? He’s
2.
really nice.
What days does he work?
Who is the woman dating?
3.
Where does he work?
Track 20
Conversation 2.
Man: Ugh. Tomorrow’s Monday.
Conversation 1.
Woman: I like Monday—it’s my day off!
Woman: Some people in my school date, but I don’t. My
Man: What do you do on your day off?
friends and I usually go out together. We go to a
club. It’s very relaxed.
Woman: Well, I usually wake up late.
1.
Man: But you don’t sleep all day, do you?
Does the woman date?
Woman: No, of course not. Sometimes I go shopping, or if
2.
it’s a nice day, I go for a bike ride.
Who does she spend time with?
4.
3.
Where does she go with her friends?
Why does the woman like Mondays?
5.
Conversation 2.
What does she usually do on her day off?
Woman: My new roommate is named Liz. She’s really nice.
6.
Man: Really?
What does she do on nice days?
Woman: Yes, she’s quiet. She usually studies in her room.
Sometimes her friends come over and hang out
Track 19
on the weekends.
1.
Man: Does she help with the housework?
Man: Let’s see . . . the total is $50. Let’s split the
Woman: Of course! She always washes the dishes after
bill—here’s $25.
she cooks dinner.
Woman: No, this is our first date! Let me pick up the
4.
check.
Who is the woman talking about?
Man: Well, thank you!
5.
How much is the man going to spend?
Where does Liz usually study?
6.
2.
When does she wash the dishes?
Man 1: Wow, what a mess!
Man 2: Sorry Juan . . . I had some friends over yesterday.
Track 21
Man 1: Don’t worry about it, Marcos. How about this: you
do the dishes and I’ll take out the garbage?
1.
Woman: Wow, Pablo, your new place is really nice!
Man 2: Sure. I’ll do the laundry, too.
Man: For real? I think it’s too small!
What chores does Marcos do?
Woman: You’re joking. You’ve got four rooms!
3.
© National Geographic Learning
Man: Finally! Flor and Alejandro aren’t dating now, and
Man: But it doesn’t have a balcony . . .
I really want to ask her out. I want our first date to
How big is Pablo’s apartment?
be perfect.
2.
What should the man speaking do?
Man: Apartment for rent in a very nice neighborhood.
4.
Two bedrooms, one bathroom, small kitchen,
Woman: Hi, Julio! Sorry I’m late.
and a balcony next to the living room. Includes air
conditioner and washing machine. Fourth floor,
Man: That’s OK. How are you doing?
no elevator.
Woman: Fine, thanks. This is a nice restaurant.
Who is good for this apartment?
Man: It is. I’m happy to see you.
Why is the woman sorry?

SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT AUDIO SCRIPTS | T275

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 275 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 434 ────────

Supplementary Content Audio Scripts

3.
Track 23
Lisa: Hi, my name is Lisa. I live in Toronto, Canada in a
1.
beautiful apartment building. My apartment is on
Man: In my job, I travel between cities and I help people
the fifteenth floor. I live with my family. My room
on the plane. I give them their food and drinks,
is painted light blue—I like that color, because it
but mostly I keep them safe. It’s an exciting job.
helps me relax.
What is the man’s job like?
How does Lisa feel about her apartment?
2.
4.
Man: So, what’s your job like?
Man: We need a new sofa.
Woman: It is so cool!
Woman. You’re kidding! That sofa is new.
Man: But it’s not very safe, is it?
Man: I know, but it isn’t comfortable.
Woman: Well, sometimes it can be dangerous, but it’s
Why doesn’t the man like the sofa?
exciting and I like helping people.
5.
What is the woman’s job?
Woman: My apartment has free wi-fi.
3.
Man: No way! I pay $50 a month for wi-fi.
Woman: I want to do an internship at a newspaper. I know
Woman: Wow! That’s expensive.
I won’t earn a lot of money, but I can get a lot of
Who has free wi-fi in their apartment?
experience. That’s really important to me.
6.
What kind of job does the woman want to find?
Woman: I love my living room. It’s really big, and it has a
4.
sofa and two chairs. The sofa is in front of two
Man 1: Hi, are you hiring?
windows. There is a lot of light for my plants.
Man 2: Yes, we are. The job is part time. Can you work
Why does the woman like her living room?
on weekends?
Man 1: No, I can only work from Monday to Friday. I
Track 22
already have a job on the weekends.
Man 2: Well, leave us your phone number. If we have a
Conversation 1.
job during the week, we’ll call you.
Woman: Let’s paint the living room.
When can the man work?
Man: Why? I like it this way—orange is my favorite
5.
color.
Man: I work in a cafe. It’s not very hard work, but it’s
Woman: I think it’s too strong. I want a relaxing color, like
important to be outgoing because I have to work
green or blue.
with customers. I can’t cook, so it’s good that I
Man: OK. Let’s try green.
am friendly.
1.
What is the man’s job?
What color is the living room now?
6.
2.
Woman: I need a part-time job! Do you have any ideas?
Why does the woman want to paint the living room?
Man: Well, you can work as a telemarketer.
3.
What color are they going to try?
Woman: What’s it like?
Man: It’s not very interesting, but the schedule is
Conversation 2.
flexible. You can work when you’re not in class.
Man: I’m looking for a new apartment.
What job can the woman get?
Woman: There’s an apartment for rent in my building.
Man: Really? How big is it?
Track 24
Woman: It has two bedrooms and two bathrooms. Come
look at it!
Conversation 1.
Man: It sounds nice, but that’s too big for me. I only
Woman: Where do you work, Alberto?
need one bedroom.
© National Geographic Learning
Man: At a hospital. I’m an emergency room nurse.
4.
Woman: Wow! What’s it like?
What is the man looking for?
Man: It’s really difficult! But it’s also interesting, and I
5.
really like helping people.
How big is the apartment in the woman’s building?
6.
Woman: When do you work?
Does the man want to look at the apartment?
Man: Usually, I work at night, though sometimes I work
in the mornings.

T276 | SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 276 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 435 ────────

Supplementary Content Audio Scripts

1.
Where does the man work?
2.
What is his job like?
3.
When does he work?

Conversation 2.
Man: My goal is to get a job as a teacher. I love working
with kids! Right now, I am a volunteer in a school
and I love it. I also work part time as a delivery
person.
4.
What job does the man want to find?
5.
Where is the man working as a volunteer?
6.
Who does he love working with?

© National Geographic Learning

SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT AUDIO SCRIPTS | T277

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 277 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 436 ────────

Supplementary Content Answer Keys

Exercise E
BRIDGE UNITS
1. backpack, 2. headphones, 3. sunglasses,
Bridge to Unit 1
4. wallet, 5. gift card, 6. watch
Get Help
Bridge to Unit 7
Exercise B
Classroom Expressions
a. 6, b. 2, c. 1, d. 3, e. 4, f. 5
Exercise A
Classroom Vocabulary
1. e, 2. a, 3. c, 4. b, 5.d
Exercise A
Grammar
1. dictionary, 2. bulletin board, 3. eraser, 4. pen,
Exercise B
5. window, 6. door, 7. pencil, 8. desk, 9. board,
10. textbook, 11. screen, 12. keyboard
1. are, 2. Is, 3. is, 4. are, 5. Is, 6. is
Bridge to Unit 4
Exercise C
Classroom Expressions
1. What are you doing, 2. I’m watching a
basketball game, 3. I’m going to the park, 4. Are
Exercise A
you meeting Carmen there, 5. She’s coming at
a. 2, b. 4, c. 6, d. 1, e. 3, f. 5
2:30, 6. My team is doing really well
Grammar
Exercise D
Exercise A
1. I drink soda with meals. 2. She isn’t going to
college in Canada. 3. We aren’t taking an art
1. my, 2. Our, 3. Her, 4. His, 5. your, 6. Their
class. / We’re not taking an art class. 4. He likes
Exercise B
milk. 5. They know a good place to study. 6. You
aren’t preparing for the university exam. / You’re
1. d, 2. a, 3. b, 4. c, 5. e, 6. f
not preparing for the university exam.
Exercise C
Exercise E
1. Where is Elena?; She’s in Tokyo. 2. Who is with
1. Does Chris like spicy food? 2. Do you drink
Sergio? / Who is Sergio with?; Michael is. /
a lot of water? 3. Do they eat healthy snacks?
Michael. 3. Where are Michael and Sergio?;
4. Does he take vitamins? 5. Does Maria have
They’re in Machu Picchu. 4. Who is in Beijing?;
fruit for breakfast? 6. Do you drink coffee?
Li Min and Chris are. 5. Who is with Kyoko? /
Who is Kyoko with?; Elena is. / Elena. 6. Where is
Exercise F
Chris?; He’s in Beijing.
1. Angela is the children’s aunt. 2. correct.
Exercise D
3. Robert and Carlos are her parents’ friends.
4. Ines is Carmen’s sister. 5. correct. 6. Emma
1. is, 2. is, 3. are, 4. is, 5. are, 6. are
and Tomas are my mother’s parents.
Exercise E
Exercise G
1. Those; That, 2. correct, 3. this; those, 4. those;
1. Kelly does. 2. He has three. 3. Marta and
that, 5. correct, 6. these; this
Jonathan do. 4. We have five. 5. Toni does.
Vocabulary
6. Javier doesn’t.
Exercise A
Vocabulary
1. backpacks, 2. watches, 3. cameras, 4. knives,
Exercise A
5. headphones, 5. dictionaries
1. studying, 2. shopping, 3. eating; drinking,
© National Geographic Learning
Exercise C
4. exercising; listening, 5. watching, 6. talking,
7. texting, 8. going
1. Peruvian, 2. Japanese, 3. Mexican, 4. Spanish,
5. Brazilian, 6. Portuguese
Exercise B
Exercise D
1. spinach salad, 2. fried chicken, 3. vegetable
soup and bread, 4. pasta with tomato sauce,
1. friendly, 2. old, 3. relaxing, 4. famous,
5. cheese and fruit, 6. tuna fish sandwich
5. crowded, 6. tall

T278 | SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 278 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 437 ────────

Supplementary Content Answer Keys

Exercise D
Exercise C

1. clean a room; make the bed, 2. go shopping,
1. healthy, 2. snack, 3. vitamins, 4. tastes,
3. make dinner; do the dishes, 4. do the laundry
5. high in, 6. meals

Exercise D
Classroom Expressions
Exercise A
1. Omar is Kelly’s father. 2. Susanna and David
are Amy’s parents. 3. Jen and Amy are Justin’s
c. 1, e. 2, b. 3, f. 4, a. 5, g. 6, h. 7, d. 8
sisters. 4. Kelly is Jen’s cousin. 5. Barbara and
Pascal are Amy and Kelly’s grandparents. 6. Gina
UNIT REVIEWS
is Justin’s aunt.
Unit 1
Accuracy Practice
Bridge Unit to 10
2. Are they students? 3. Hi, I am Antonio.
Grammar
4. Is Marta a teacher? 5. My favorite sport is
Exercise A
swimming.
1. on, 2. in, 3. from, to, 4. at, 5. in, 6. at
Question Formulation
Exercise B
Answers will vary. Suggested answers: 2. Is pop
your favorite music? 3. Is English your favorite
1. When do you study? 2. Who does Liz go out
class? 4. Is World Link your favorite textbook?
with on Saturdays? 3. Where does Pablo live?
5. Are scary movies your favorite movies? 6. Are
4. What do you do in the afternoon? 5. When
reality shows your favorite TV shows?
does Mike work? 6. What do they have in the
morning?
Exam Preparation: Listening
Exercise C
Exercise A
1. When is your break? 2. When do you study
2. c, 3. a, 4. b, 5. d, 6. d
English? 3. How long is the movie? 4. When does
Exercise B
your vacation start? 5. When is your birthday?
6. How long do you study?
2. c, 3. d, 4. b, 5. d, 6. c
Exercise D
Unit 2
a. 5, b. 6, c. 3, d. 1, e. 4, f. 2
Accuracy Practice
Exercise E
2. I’m from Lima. 3. Who is with you? 4. Marta is
in New York City. 5. They are at the museum.
1. I rarely go the beach on the weekend. 2. They
always go to a cafe after class. 3. You hardly ever
Question Formulation
do the dishes. 4. We don’t usually / usually don’t
Answers will vary. Suggested answers: 2. Where
make dinner on Fridays. 5. My roommate never
are they? 3. Who is the teacher? 4. Where are
takes out the garbage. 6. She often goes to the
people friendly? 5. Who is with you? 6. Where is
movies with her friend.
Bangkok?
Exercise F
Exam Preparation: Reading
1. b, 2. e, 3. c, 4. d, 5. a, 6. f
2. b, 3. a, 4. c, 5. d
Vocabulary
Unit 3
Exercise A
Accuracy Practice
1. nine fifteen; quarter past nine, 2. eleven forty-
2. This is my wallet. 3. That is your backpack.
five; quarter to twelve, 3. two fifty-five; five to
4. It is a messy room. 5. My watch isn’t
© National Geographic Learning
three, 4. four-oh-five; five after four, 5. eight thirty;
expensive. 6. The headphones are in your
half past eight, 6. two; two o’clock
pocket.
Exercise B
Question Formulation
1. go for a walk, 2. go dancing, 3. go for a hike,
Exercise A
4. go shopping, 5. go to the movies, 6. go to a
2. Is that a new laptop? 3. Are those your
friend’s house
sunglasses? 4. Are those headphones
Exercise C
comfortable? 5. Is that backpack expensive?
6. What is this called in English?
1. December, 2. January, 3. March, 4. August,
5. November, 6. July

SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT ANSWER KEYS | T279

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 279 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 438 ────────

Supplementary Content Answer Keys

Exercise B
brother. 6. circled: doesn’t, brother; We don’t
have a brother. / We don’t have brothers.
Some answers will vary. Suggested answers:
2. Yes, it is. 3. No, they aren’t. 4. Yes, they are.
Exam Preparation: Reading
5. No, it isn’t. 6. It’s a gift card.
2. d, 3. b, 4. b, 5. a
Exam Preparation: Reading
Exam Preparation: Listening
2. b, 3. c
Exercise A
Exam Preparation: Listening
2. d, 3. a, 4. b, 5. c, 6. c
Exercise A
Exercise B
2. a, 3. c, 4. b, 5. d, 6. a
2. b, 3. d, 4. a, 5. c, 6. c
Exercise B
Unit 7
2. c, 3. a, 4. c, 5. a, 6. d
Accuracy Practice
Unit 4
2. goes, 3. take, 4. wake up, 5. has, 6. finish
Accuracy Practice
Question Formulation
2. He is texting a friend. 3. He is talking on the
2. What, 3. Where / When, 4. When / Where,
phone. 4. She is watching TV. 5. They are eating
5. Who, 6. Where / When
fish.
Exam Preparation: Listening
Exam Preparation: Listening
Exercise A
Exercise A
2. c, 3. c, 4. a, 5. d, 6. a
2. c, 3. b, 4. d, 5. b, 6. c
Exercise B
Exercise B
2. b, 3. c, 4. a, 5. d, 6. c
2. c, 3. d, 4. d, 5. a, 6. b
Unit 8
Unit 5
Accuracy Practice
Accuracy Practice
2. When does your vacation start, 3. I’m going to
2. She drinks coffee. 3. He does not eat meat.
the World Cup, 4. The music festival takes place
4. Eat healthy snacks between meals. 5. We do
in March, 5. There is a parade tomorrow, 6. When
not drink a lot of soda.
do you celebrate Labor Day
Question Formulation
Question Formulation
Exercise A
Answers will vary. Suggested answers: 2. does
2. Do they like spicy food? 3. Does the teacher
the parade take place, 3. is the holiday, 4. do you
like junk food? 4. Do people drink six glasses of
take photos, 5. athletes compete in the games
water every day? 5. Does he eat healthy food?
6. song do the musicians perform
6. Do you take vitamins every day?
Exam Preparation: Reading
Exercise B
2. b, 3. c
2. No, they don’t like spicy food. 3. Yes, the
Unit 9
teacher likes junk food. 4. Yes, people drink
Accuracy Practice
six glasses of water every day. 5. Yes, he eats
healthy food. 6. No, I don’t take vitamins every
2. Tom is never messy. 3. Linda doesn’t usually
day.
© National Geographic Learning
make dinner. 4. Tom hardly ever makes his bed.
5. Linda always does the dishes.
Exam Preparation: Reading
Question Formulation
2. b, 3. d, 4. a, 5. c, 6. b
2. When does your roommate do laundry, 3. Do you
Unit 6
make breakfast every day, 4. When does your family
Accuracy Practice
make dinner, 5. Does your brother clean his room,
2. circled: are; Justin is close with his sister.
6. What do you make for breakfast
3. circled: They; She loves her grandmother.
Exam Preparation: Reading
4. circled: are, families; This is my family.
5. circled: has, sister; I have two sisters and one
2. d, 3. c, 4. a, 5. b, 6. d

T280 | SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 280 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 439 ────────

Supplementary Content Answer Keys

Exam Preparation: Listening
Exercise B
Exercise A
2. b, 3. c, 4. c, 5. d, 6. a
2. d, 3. a, 4. b, 5. a, 6. d

Exercise B
PROCESS WRITING
2. a, 3. d, 4. b, 5. d, 6. c
1
Unit 10
Exercise A
Accuracy Practice
1. first name, 2. student, 3. last name, 4. Our,
2. There are, 3. There isn’t, 4. There are, 5. There
5. He’s
aren’t, 6. There is
Exercise B
Question Formulation
1. are, 2. is, 3. is, 4. are, 5. are
Answers will vary. Suggested answers: 2. is your
Exercise D
TV, 3. is your favorite color, 4. furniture in your
living room, 5. closets in your house, 6. color is
1. a, 2. b, 3. b, 4. a, 5. a
your bedroom
Exercise F
Exam Preparation: Listening
1. b, 2. d, 3. a, 4. f, 5. c, 6. e
Exercise A
Exercise G
2. d, 3. b, 4. d, 5. a, 6. b
1. It’s, 2. It’s, 3. are, 4. are, 5. is, 6. It’s
Exercise B
Exercise I
2. c, 3. d, 4. c, 5. c, 6. b
1. Are those my sunglasses? 2. Is that laptop
easy to use? 3. Is that classroom messy? 4. Are
Unit 11
these your headphones? 5. Are those boots
Accuracy Practice
cheap? 6. Is this TV expensive?
2. has to, 3. want to, 4. don’t have to, 5. has to
Exercise J
Question Formulation
1. This, 2. favorite, 3. That, 4. These, 5. It’s
Exercise A
2
2. pairs of sunglasses do you need, 3. do you
Exercise A
buy cool clothes, 4. do you have in your closet,
5. are those sneakers
1. ’s not studying / isn’t studying, 2. ’m talking,
3. ’re shopping, 4. ’re not watching / aren’t
Exam Preparation: Reading
watching, 5. ’s going
2. b, 3. a, 4. b, 5. c, 6. c
Exercise B
Unit 12
1. this term, 2. I’m not majoring, 3. taking classes,
Accuracy Practice
4. I’m preparing, 5. are you doing
2. I can’t remember names well, 3. Lee can talk
Exercise D
to other people easily, 4. We can tell interesting
stories, 5. She can’t speak any Chinese
1. doesn’t eat, 2. likes, 3. eat, 4. don’t like,
5. drinks, 6. don’t like
Question Formulation
Exercise E
Answers will vary. Suggested answers:
2. languages can you speak, 3. can you
1. Does she eat healthy foods? 2. Does he skip
© National Geographic Learning
follow directions, 4. can tell interesting stories,
breakfast? 3. Do you eat junk food? 4. Does she
5. instrument can you play
take vitamins? 5. Do they want a snack?

Exercise G
Exam Preparation: Reading
2. b, 3. a, 4. b, 5. c, 6. a
1. seeing, 2. parents, 3. single, 4. married,
5. husband, 6. daughter
Exam Preparation: Listening
Exercise A

2. c, 3. a, 4. d, 5. a, 6. b

SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT ANSWER KEYS | T281

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 281 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 440 ────────

Supplementary Content Answer Keys

4
3
Exercise A
Exercise A

1. No, there isn’t. 2. There are two (bathrooms).
1. at, 2. from, 3. on, 4. in, 5. at, 6. on
3. Yes, there are. 4. There is one (sofa). 5. Yes,
Exercise C
there is. 6. No, there aren’t.
1. It’s on May 24th. 2. Her birthday is on March
Exercise B
12th. 3. Our big vacation is in the spring. 4. His
1. too, 2. very / too, 3. very, 4. too, 5. too,
party is on June 3rd. 5. New Year’s Eve is on
6. very / too
December 31st. 6. We have a family party in the
summer.
Exercise D
Exercise D
1. want to, 2. have, 3. have to, 4. wants to, 5. has,
6. wants
1. festival, 2. every year, 3. March, 4. attend,
5. perform, 6. events
Exercise E
Exercise F
1. I have new shoes at home. 2. She’s buying
some jewelry. 3. correct 4. He wants to put on
1. Ken always makes breakfast in the morning.
sandals. 5. We can buy more clothes. 6. correct
2. Ana never does the laundry on weekends. 3.
Emre doesn’t usually eat lunch at home. 4. Celina
Exercise G
hardly ever cleans the common areas in the
1. c, 2. g, 3. d, 4. b, 5. a, 6. e, 7. f
evening. 5. Mauricio sometimes does the dishes
after dinner. 6. Tara doesn’t always make noise in
the afternoon.

Exercise G

1. In my opinion, 2. meet, 3. For one thing,
4. Also, 5. hang out, 6. ask, 7. single

© National Geographic Learning

T282 | SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 282 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 441 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

2
Track 2
Antonio: I am ➔ I’m ➔ I’m Antonio.
Mei-Li: Hi. My first name is Mei-Li. My last name is
3
Yang: Y-A-N-G.
Maya: It is ➔ It’s ➔ It’s nice to meet you.
Alberto: My name is Alberto. My last name is Cruz:
C-R-U-Z.
Lucas: Hi there. I’m Lucas. My last name is Carvalho:
Track 7
C-A-R-V-A-L-H-O.
Introducing Yourself
Noor: Hi. I’m Noor. My last name is Hashim:
Hi. What’s your name?
H-A-S-H-I-M.
My name is . . . / I’m . . .
It’s nice to meet you. / Nice to meet you.
Track 3
It’s nice to meet you, too. / Nice to meet you, too.
Matt: Good morning, everyone. Welcome to English
one oh one. I’m your teacher. My name is Matt
and my last name is Hudson. That’s spelled
Track 8
H-U-D-S-O-N. OK . . . let’s meet you. Mei-Li?
Your Photo, Your Story
You start.
The photos on this page are personal portraits. A personal
Mei-Li: OK . . . Hi, everyone. I’m Mei-Li Yang . . . but
portrait is a kind of photo. It shows something important
just call me Mei.
about you. Maybe Manchester United is your favorite soccer
Matt: OK, thanks Mei. And . . . Alberto? Hi.
team. Maybe you are a student at a famous university.
Maybe you are a singer in a band. A personal portrait is a
Alberto: Hi, everyone. I’m Alberto Cruz. Please call me
photo of you. It also tells a story about you.
Beto.
Matt: Can you spell that, please?
Track 9
Alberto: Sure. It’s B-E-T-O.

Woman: So, what do you want to watch?
Track 4
Man: Oh, I don’t know. Is The Walking Dead on?
Woman: The Walking Dead?
Matt: My email address is Matt dot Hudson at C-C-F
dot e-d-u. And my office number is four seven
Man: Yeah, you know, the TV show about zombies.
two, three oh four, nine six eight two. Mei,
It’s one of my favorite shows.
What’s your email address?
Woman: Oh yeah, that one. Yeah, it’s on.
Mei-Li: It’s Mei at easypost dot com.
Man: Great. Let’s watch it.
Matt: OK. And your phone number?
Woman: (hesitating) I don’t know.
Mei-Li: It’s four seven two, six one five, two four, seven
Man: Oh come on, it’s a great show!
three.
Woman: It’s too scary. Look, there’s a soccer game on
Matt: OK, thanks. And Beto, what’s your email
now, too.
address?
Man: Hmm, maybe. What else is on?
Alberto: It’s Alberto C at mylink dot M X.
Woman: Um, there’s some reality show called Singing
Matt: And your phone number?
Idol.
Alberto: It’s four seven two, five oh four, nine nine, one
Man: Nah. Go back to the game.
eight.
Matt: Great, thank you.
Track 10

France
Jordan
Track 5
Peru
© National Geographic Learning
Maya: Hi, my name is Maya. What’s your name?
Russia
Antonio: Hi, Maya. I’m Antonio.
Thailand
Maya: Nice to meet you, Antonio.
Turkey
Antonio: It’s nice to meet you, too.

Track 11
Track 6
Bangkok
1
Cusco
Maya: What is ➔ What’s ➔ What’s your name?

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T283

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 283 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 442 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Fes
Contestant 2: The United States?
Granada
Announcer: No, that’s incorrect. The US is number
two.
Istanbul
Contestant 1: Is it China?
La Paz
Announcer: No, sorry, that’s wrong. China is number
New York
three. The correct answer is France. And
Paris
now, for clue number five: Machu Picchu
is in this South American country.
Track 12
Contestant 1: Is it Peru?
Announcer: That’s correct! And now, our last clue:
China / Chinese
This country is southeast of China. The
Japan / Japanese
Mekong River flows through it. What is its
Portugal / Portuguese
name?
Australia / Australian
Contestant 1: Malaysia!
Brazil / Brazilian
Announcer: No, sorry.
Peru / Peruvian
Contestant 2: Is it Vietnam?
Korea / Korean
Announcer: It is!
Mexico / Mexican
The United States / American
Track 15
Spain / Spanish
Haru: Excuse me? Are you in this class?
The United Kingdom / British
Ana: Yes, I am. Are you?
Turkey / Turkish
Haru: Yeah. Hi, my name’s Haru.
Ana: Hi, I’m Ana.
Track 13
Haru: Great to meet you.
Welcome to Where in the World! Our topic today is
Ana: You, too. So, where are you from, Haru?
countries of the world . . . and here is clue number one: The
Haru: Japan.
city of Ottawa is the capital of this country . . . . And now,
Ana: Cool. Which city?
clue number two: This place is actually four countries in one
country . . . . OK, here is clue number three: The nickname
Haru: Tokyo. How about you? Where are you from?
for people in this country is Kiwi . . . . Alright, here’s the next
Ana: Bogota, Colombia.
clue: This country gets the most tourists in the world almost
every year . . . . And now for clue number five: Machu
Track 16
Picchu is in this South American country . . . . And now our
last clue: This country is south of China. Its most important
Asking where someone is from
river is the Mekong.
A: Where are you from?
B: Japan / I’m from Japan.
Track 14
A: Really? Which city?
Announcer: Welcome to Where in the World! Our
B: Tokyo. / I’m from Tokyo.
topic today is countries of the world . . .
A: Really? Where exactly?
and here is clue number one: The city of
Ottawa is the capital of this country.
B: A small town near Tokyo. / I’m from a small
town near Tokyo. Are you from Colombia?
Contestant 1: Canada?
A: Yes, I am. / No, I’m from Peru.
Announcer: That’s right! And now, clue number two:
This place is actually four countries in one
country.
Track 17
© National Geographic Learning
Contestant 2: Is it the UK?
A Great Place to Visit
Announcer: It is the United Kingdom! OK, here is clue
Hi Cary,
number three: The nickname for people
Greetings! It’s day six of my vacation. I’m in a big city of 4.7
in this country is Kiwi.
million people. It’s very exciting.
Contestant 2: New Zealand.
Right now I’m in a busy cafe on Long Street. There are a
Announcer: Yes . . . New Zealand . . . that’s correct!
lot of restaurants and shops on Long Street. The streets
All right, here’s the next clue: This country
are very crowded! There are many interesting things to see
gets the most tourists in the world almost
and do here. Boulders Beach is beautiful. It’s famous for
every year.
penguins. They’re really cute!

T284 | STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 284 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 443 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

2
There’s also Table Mountain. It’s a popular place. The
view from there is really wonderful. There are many soccer
Male: A gift card.
stadiums here. Do you like soccer? I don’t!
3
I’m having a great time!
Female: Headphones.
Please say “hi” to everyone in Sydney for me!
4
Melissa
Male: Movie tickets.
5
Track 18
Female: A laptop.
Fiona: Hey, John, I really like your blog . . . and these
6
photos are beautiful.
Male: Sunglasses.
John: Thanks, Fiona.
7
Fiona: Where are they from?
Female: A wallet.
John: Isfahan.
8
Fiona: Where’s Isfahan?
Male: A watch.
John: It’s in Iran.
Fiona: Oh, OK. Cool. What’s it like there?
Track 21
John: Well . . . it’s a wonderful country . . . a really
Tak: I really don’t like shopping.
interesting place.
Martina: I know, Tak. But it’s getting late . . . and we
need a gift.
Track 19
Tak: Oh, Martina . . . I just don’t know.
Fiona: Hey, John, I really like your blog . . . and these
Martina: Well, the gift is for your friend, Sue, right?
photos are beautiful.
Tak: Yes, that’s right.
John: Thanks, Fiona.
Martina: And it’s a graduation gift . . . . Tell me about
Fiona: Where are they from?
Sue.
John: Isfahan.
Tak: Let’s see . . . She’s a good friend of mine. She
Fiona: Where’s Isfahan?
plays soccer. . . . mmm . . .
John: It’s in Iran.
Martina: So she likes sports?
Fiona: Oh, OK. Cool. What’s it like there?
Tak: Uh-huh. And her favorite kind of music is hiphop . . . and . . . um . . .
John: Well . . . it’s a wonderful country . . . a really
interesting place.
Martina: I know! She likes music, right?
Fiona: So, John . . . are there many tourists in Iran?
Tak: Yeah.
John: From other countries . . . no, not many.
Fiona: Mmm, I see. And the Iranian people, what are
Track 22
they like?
Tak: I really don’t like shopping.
John: They’re very friendly.
Martina: I know, Tak. But it’s getting late . . . and we
Fiona: I really like this photo. It’s my favorite.
need a gift.
John: Oh, that’s Khaju Bridge. It’s a famous bridge.
Tak: Oh, Martina . . . I just don’t know.
Fiona: It looks very old.
Martina: Well, the gift is for your friend, Sue, right?
John: It is . . . and you can walk across it. It’s
Tak: Yes, that’s right.
relaxing . . . and cool.
Martina: And it’s a graduation gift.
Fiona: Very nice . . . . Hmm . . . What’s this?
Tak: Yes, any ideas?
John: That’s a picture of the main square.
Martina: How about a gift card? That’s a popular gift.
© National Geographic Learning
Fiona: Wow, it’s really big.
Tak: Mmm, yes, I know. Many people give gift cards
John: Yes, it is. You can walk around and drink tea
for graduation . . . . But I don’t want to. It’s a
there.
boring gift.
Fiona: Isfahan is so beautiful. I want to visit someday!
Martina: OK, well, there’s a nice backpack right over
here . . . .
Track 20
Tak: Yeah, it is nice. Whoa! It’s expensive!
Martina: Tell me about Sue.
1
Female: A backpack.

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T285

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 285 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 444 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

In plural nouns that end in the voiceless consonant sounds
Tak: Let’s see . . . . She’s a good friend of mine. She
/k/, like backpack or notebook, /p/, like laptop, and /t/, like
plays soccer. . . . mmm . . .
wallet, we pronounce the plural ending “s” or “e-s” as /s/.
Martina: So she likes sports?
Please repeat:
Tak: Uh-huh. And her favorite kind of music is hipa backpack, two backpacks
hop . . . and . . . um . . .
a notebook, two notebooks
Martina: I know! She likes music, right?
a laptop, two laptops
Tak: Yeah.
a wallet, two wallets
Martina: Well . . . headphones!
Tak: Headphones . . . hmm . . . I like it! Great idea!
In plural nouns that end in other consonant sounds or a
Martina: These headphones aren’t expensive at all.
vowel sound, we pronounce the plural ending “s” or “e-s”
Tak: Yes . . . and they’re her favorite. She loves this
as /z/.
brand!
Please repeat:
a camera, two cameras
Track 23
a key, two keys
an ID card, two ID cards
Sun: Oh no . . .
an umbrella, two umbrellas
Paula: What’s wrong, Sun?
Sun: My wallet. Where’s my wallet?
Paula: Is it in your pocket?
Track 26
Sun: Um . . . no.
WHO IS MARIE KONDO?
Paula: Is it in your backpack?
Is your room messy? Many people’s rooms are not tidy.
Their rooms are filled with clothes, books, papers, and
Sun: No, it’s not. I can’t find it anywhere!
more. They feel bad about their rooms. They need help.
Man: Hmmm . . . what’s this? Excuse me, miss?
Marie Kondo helps them. She’s an expert. She’s good at
Sun: Yes?
organizing.
Man: Is this your wallet?
Marie is on TV. Her show is “Tidying up with Marie Kondo.”
Sun: Yes, it is! Thank you very much!
It’s a fun show. She’s also a writer. Her book is very popular.
Man: You’re welcome.
It’s in more than 30 countries. It’s in Chinese, Spanish,
Korean, French, and many other languages. She’s famous.
Here are some good tips from Marie Kondo:
Track 24
• In your room, there are different groups of things
Giving and Replying to Thanks
(clothes, books, papers). To tidy up, start with the
Saying Thank you
clothes first and then the books and the papers. This
Thank you very much.
order is important.
Thank you.
• Look at your clothes. Don’t keep everything. This is hard.
Thanks a lot.
• It’s the same with your books and papers. Throw away
the extra things.
Thanks.
• Do some things make you happy? Keep those things.
Replies
These are some of the tips from Marie Kondo. There are
You’re welcome.
many more on her TV show and in her book!
My pleasure.
Sure, no problem.
Track 27
You bet.
Zach: Hey, Anna. What are you doing?
Anna: Oh hi, Zach. I’m just tidying up. My room is
Track 25
© National Geographic Learning
really messy.
In plural nouns that end in the sounds /s/, like class, /t∫/, like
Zach: It looks OK to me.
watch, /∫/, like wish, and /d /, like language, we pronounce
Anna: Well, I have to throw away some old things: you
the plural ending “e-s” as an extra syllable.
know, like, books and photos and clothes . . .
Please repeat:
Zach: That’s a lot!
a class, two classes
Anna: Well, my books are in those boxes. That’s for
a watch, two watches
tomorrow. And today, it’s the photos. They’re in
this box.
a dish, two dishes
Zach: Oh, OK.
a bus, two buses

T286 | STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 286 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 445 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Mom: Ben, what are you doing . . . Who are you
Track 28
talking to?
Zach: Is that you in the photo?
Ben: No one, mom. I’m watching a video . . .
Anna: Yes, that’s me.
Mom: A video? No videos now, Ben. Please, do your
Zach: You look so different!
homework.
Anna: Well, of course. I’m 20 now. In that photo, I’m
Ben: I am. I’m watching this video as part of my
only eight or nine years old.
homework.
Zach: Where are you?
Mom: Oh, OK. How’s it going?
Anna: I’m at my house.
Ben: Fine. The video is interesting and I’m learning a
Zach: Who’s with you in the photo?
lot.
Anna: That’s my friend, Marta.

Track 30
Zach: What about this one?
Conversation 1
Anna: Oh, let’s see . . . that’s from London. I’m on
vacation with my parents.
Woman: Hi, how are you doing today?
Zach: You look really good.
Man: I’m fine, thanks.
Anna: Aww, thanks.
Woman: Can I help you find something?
Zach: Where are you in this picture?
Man: Uh, yes . . . a phone for my mom. It’s a gift.
Anna: We’re on the Tower Bridge. It’s really beautiful
Woman: For your mother, gotcha.
there.
Man: I like this one. Is it easy to use?
Woman: Yes, it is. It’s a very popular phone. And it’s not
Zach: What a great photo!
expensive.
Anna: Yeah, that’s me and my classmates. That was a
fun day.
Narrator: What is the man doing?
Zach: Where are you?
A. He’s waiting for a phone call.
Anna: It’s our school trip. We’re at the beach.
B. He’s shopping for a phone.
Zach: There are so many students!
C. He’s talking on the phone.
Anna: Yeah. That’s everyone in my class.
Conversation 2
Gabby: Hello?
Track 29
Jim: Hi, Gabby. It’s Jim.
Conversation 1
Gabby: Hi, Jim. How are you?
Woman: Hi, how are you doing today?
Jim: Fine . . . Hello? What are you doing Gabby? I’m
Man: I’m fine, thanks.
losing you.
Woman: Can I help you find something?
Gabby: Hi, sorry about that. I’m running in the park.
Man: Uh, yes . . . a phone for my mom. It’s a gift.
Jim: Oh, OK. Maybe now isn’t a good time. Let’s talk
Woman: For your mother, gotcha.
later, OK?
Man: I like this one. Is it easy to use?
Gabby: OK, bye.
Woman: Yes, it is. It’s a very popular phone. And it’s not
Narrator: What is Gabby doing?
expensive.
A. She’s going to the gym.
Conversation 2
B. She’s waiting for a friend.
Gabby: (as if answering a phone): Hello?
C. She’s exercising.
Jim: Hi, Gabby. It’s Jim.
Conversation 3
Gabby: Hi, Jim. How are you?
© National Geographic Learning
Mom: Ben?
Jim: Fine . . . Hello? What are you doing Gabby? I’m
Ben: Yeah?
losing you.
Mom: Ben, what are you doing . . . Who are you
Gabby: Hi, sorry about that. I’m running in the park.
talking to?
Jim: Oh, OK. Maybe now isn’t a good time. Let’s talk
Ben: No one, mom. I’m watching a video . . .
later, OK?
Mom: A video? No videos now, Ben. Please, do your
Gabby: OK, bye.
homework.
Conversation 3
Ben: I am. I’m watching this video as part of my
Mom: Ben?
homework.
Ben: Yeah?
Mom: Oh, OK. How’s it going?

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T287

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 287 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 446 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Ben: Fine. The video is interesting and I’m learning a
language classes. (English, Mandarin, Korean, and Spanish
lot.
are the most popular.) Other people are preparing for an
English-language exam like the TOEFL or IELTS.
Narrator: What is Ben doing?
At Harvard University, there is a famous class called Justice.
A. He’s talking on the phone.
In it, a professor from the university’s law school talks about
different social problems. He asks the question: “What’s the
B. He’s watching a TV show.
right thing to do?” The class is interesting, and many people
C. He’s doing his homework.
take it for fun.
Learn more
Track 31
Peking University (in China), Stanford University (in the US),
Monique: Hello?
UNAM (in Mexico), Yonsei University (in South Korea), and
many others offer free classes on the internet. To learn
Luis: Hey, Monique. It’s Luis.
more, do a search for a college’s name and “free online
Monique: Hi, Luis. How are you doing?
classes.”
Luis: Fine. How about you?
Monique: So-so.
Track 35
Luis: Yeah? What’s wrong?
Are you planning to study abroad in the future? There are
Monique: I’m waiting for the bus. It’s late!
many places to go. In today’s podcast, we’re talking about
Luis: Sorry to hear that.
a familiar favorite: Berlin, Germany.
Monique: What are you doing, Luis?
Why is Berlin a good place to study?
Luis: Not much. I’m watching TV.
Well, Berlin is a world capital of business and technology.

Track 32
The schools in Berlin are very good, too, but they aren’t
expensive.
Monique: How are you doing?
Also, Berlin is an exciting and interesting city.
Luis: Fine. How about you?

Track 36
Track 33
Are you planning to study abroad in the future? There are
Greeting people and asking how they are
many places to go. In today’s podcast, we’re talking about
Hi, . . . How are you doing?
a familiar favorite: Berlin, Germany.
Fine. / OK. / All right. / Pretty good.
Why is Berlin a good place to study?
How about you?
Well, Berlin is a world capital of business and technology.
I’m fine.
There are many tech startups in Berlin. For this reason,
Hi, . . . How are you doing?
people from all over the world are studying—and
working—here.
So-so.
The schools in Berlin are very good, too, but they aren’t
Yeah? What’s wrong?
expensive. In Germany, some universities are almost free—
I’m waiting for the bus. It’s late!
for both German and foreign students. Students pay some
money, but it isn’t a lot. Also, in many universities, classes
Track 34
are in English.
Also, Berlin is an exciting and interesting city. It’s famous for
Popular Online Classes
its history, classical music, and street art. There really is a lot
Today, many famous universities are offering classes online
to do, see, and learn in Berlin!
to everyone for free. What are some of the most popular
classes and why?
Track 37
Five Favorites
© National Geographic Learning
Classes in computer science and IT are the most popular.
steak and a baked potato
Today, many people are studying these subjects. In the
spinach salad with tomatoes and onions
future, they are planning to work in tech because there are
cheese and fruit
many jobs and the pay is good.
pasta with tomato sauce
Classes about well-being are also popular. Today, many
vegetable soup and bread
people’s lives are very busy, and this is hard. In these
classes, people learn to feel good. A very popular class on
rice and beans
this topic, The Science of Well-Being, is Yale University’s
fried chicken
most popular course ever.
a tuna fish sandwich
Today, more people are studying or working in other
a burger and fries
countries. For this reason, many people are taking foreign

T288 | STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 288 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 447 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Emily: Sounds good.
Track 38
Bao: They have good sandwiches and noodle soups.
1. Your pasta comes with soup and bread.
Emily: OK, then. Let’s go!
2. Cheese and fruit is a good snack.
3. Do you want a burger and fries?
Track 42

Talking about Likes and Dislikes
Track 39
Do you like Indian food?
1. I’d like a soda. (pause) I’d like a soda.
I love it!
2. I’d like the fried chicken, please. (pause) I’d like the fried
Yeah, I like it.
chicken, please.
It’s OK, but it’s not my favorite.
3. I’d like a salad. (pause) I’d like a salad.
Not really.
Track 40
Track 43
David: It’s not a very big menu.
Two Powerful Foods
Lara: That’s true, but all of the sandwiches
are really good.
Chili peppers are a type of fruit from the Americas. People
first used them over 6,000 years ago! Today, people all over
Food truck worker: Excuse me. Are you ready to order?
the world, from Mexico to Thailand, are using chilies in their
David: You go first.
cooking.
Lara: OK. I’d like a chicken sandwich,
Chili peppers taste good, but they’re also good for us.
please.
They’re high in vitamin C. This keeps you healthy. Many
Food truck worker: OK, got it. That comes with fries or a
chilies are also spicy. This spice gives you energy. It also
small salad.
makes you less hungry, so you eat less. Doctors think chili
Lara: Hmm, fries please.
peppers can stop some kinds of cancer, too.
Food truck worker: All right, then. And you?
Licorice, a type of plant, comes from southern Europe and
Asia. Today, when people hear the word licorice, they think
David: I’m not sure.
of candy. In fact, licorice is in some sweet foods (like candy)
Lara: You know, the chicken sandwich is
and drinks (like soda), but it is also a very old medicine.
really good here.
Two thousand years ago, people used licorice for colds
David: OK, that sounds good. The same for
and other illnesses. Today, it is still in some cold medicines.
me, please.
People also use it for stomach and skin problems.
Food truck worker: Two chicken sandwiches, then.
Some doctors think licorice—like chili peppers—can help
Anything to drink?
people with cancer!
Lara: I’d like a soda.
David: Just water for me, thanks.
Track 44
Food truck worker: OK, so I have two chicken
Do you know what “skip breakfast” means? It means to not
sandwiches with fries, one soda, and
have any breakfast. Maybe you only have a cup of coffee
one water.
and that’s it. You don’t eat a full meal.
David: That’s correct . . . oh wait, can I
When you skip breakfast, it’s a bad start to the day.
change my order? I’d like the salad,
Breakfast is an important meal. It gives you a lot of energy
not the fries.
for the day.
Food truck worker: Got it. One chicken sandwich with a
Some students skip breakfast. They are very busy and they
salad and one chicken sandwich with
don’t have time to eat anything.
fries. Anything else?
Other students don’t like to eat breakfast. They say food
David: No, I think that’s it!
doesn’t taste good in the morning. They skip breakfast, too.
© National Geographic Learning
Is skipping breakfast bad for students? The answer is yes.
Track 41

Bao: I’m hungry.
Track 45
Emily: Me, too. What do you want to eat?
Do you know what “skip breakfast” means? It means to not
Bao: Anything, really. Hey, . . . do you like
have any breakfast. Maybe you only have a cup of coffee
Vietnamese food?
and that’s it. You don’t eat a full meal.
Emily: I love it!
When you skip breakfast, it’s a bad start to the day.
Bao: I know a good restaurant near here. It’s a small
Breakfast is an important meal. It gives you a lot of energy
and friendly place.
for the day.

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T289

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 289 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 448 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Beth: Yeah. She’s 85!
Some students skip breakfast. They are very busy and they
don’t have time to eat anything.
Carlos: That’s amazing. And who’s this?
Other students don’t like to eat breakfast. They say food
Beth: My younger sister, Sonia.
doesn’t taste good in the morning. They skip breakfast, too.
Carlos: You look alike. How old is she?
Is skipping breakfast bad for students? The answer is yes.
Beth: Eighteen. I’m 22.
When students skip breakfast, they eat more snacks. A
healthy breakfast has many different types of foods. The
Track 50
foods are high in vitamins. Most snacks do not give you
energy. They are bad for you.
Talking about age
When students skip breakfast, they are tired. They don’t do
How old is your sister?
well in school and they have less energy.
18. / She’s 18.
Do you skip breakfast? That may not be a good idea!
How old are you?
22. / I’m 22.
Track 46
Are you the same age?
Some students skip breakfast. They are very busy and they
Yes, we’re both 20.
don’t have time to eat anything.
No, he’s older. He’s 24.
Other students don’t like to eat breakfast. They say food
No, he’s younger. He’s 18.
doesn’t taste good in the morning. They skip breakfast, too.
Is skipping breakfast bad for students? The answer is yes.
Track 51
When students skip breakfast, they eat more snacks. A
healthy breakfast has many different types of foods. The
my sister’s son
foods are high in vitamins. Most snacks do not give you
the boy’s name
energy. They are bad for you.
Beth’s grandmother
When students skip breakfast, they are tired. They don’t do
my parents’ names
well in school and they have less energy.
Carlos’s family
Do you skip breakfast? That may not be a good idea!
Mr. Gomez’s children

Track 47
Track 52
Herman and Candelaria Zapp are from Argentina. They have
TIME TO GET MARRIED?
four children, and together with them, they travel around
the world. The family goes from place to place in a car from
Song Zongpei lives in Beijing, China. Her life and her
1928. It’s over 90 years old, and it goes about 65 kilometers
mother’s are very different. At 28, Ms. Song’s mother was
an hour—so, not very fast. In this car, the family has visited
married with a child. Today, Ms. Song is 28. She’s got a job
different countries . . . 100 so far.
and lives in her own apartment with two roommates. She’s
also single, and—as she told The New York Times—she has
no plans to get married soon or have a family.
Track 48
Ms. Song isn’t alone. Today in China, fewer people are
When the family is traveling—which is often—the children
getting married, especially in big cities. One recent study, for
don’t go to a regular school. Instead, they study with their
example, interviewed a large group of people in Shanghai.
parents. Like most kids, they read and write, do math, and
Almost 10% say they are planning to stay single. They don’t
learn languages. But for these children, the world is also
want to get married now or in the future. Others are waiting
their classroom. They study school subjects, like science
until their thirties to get married.
and history, by traveling. They don’t just look at photos of
Some parents don’t like these changes. They want their
famous places in a book; they go and see these places.
children to find someone and get married by age 28 or 29.
When they are traveling, the family stays with other family
This is the way to a happy life, the parents say. But more
members. Herman’s father, for example, lives in the US.
single people don’t agree with this idea. They’re happy now.
© National Geographic Learning
Herman and Candelaria also have friends around the world.
Married life, they say, can wait.
Life isn’t always easy for this family, but it is interesting—for
both the parents and their children.
Track 53

Woman: We’re talking in this podcast with a special
Track 49
guest about marriage.
Carlos: Is someone texting you?
Doctor, many people are single these days. Is
Beth: Yeah, my mom. Look. It’s a family photo from
getting married still important to people?
my grandmother’s birthday party.
Man: Yes, it is, but—as you can see from the
Carlos: Nice. Is this your grandma?
chart—people are waiting to get married. For

T290 | STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 290 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 449 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

example, look at the UK. The average age for
Track 57
women to get married is thirty-five. For men,
Most astronauts study science in college. Some of the time,
it’s thirty-eight. You see this happening all over
they live and work in space. On the International Space
Europe . . . that is, people are getting married
Station, astronauts work hard every day. But what exactly
after age thirty.
do they do? When do they wake up? When do they eat
Woman: What about outside Europe?
lunch? Let’s find out.
Man: Well, in many countries, people still get married
Like many other people, astronauts wake up early—around
in their twenties. If you look at Turkey, for
six o’clock in the morning. They have about one hour to get
example, women get married around 25, for
dressed and have breakfast.
men, it’s about 28. But that’s older than in the
At seven o’clock, they talk on the phone with scientists on
past.
Earth. They plan their day.
Woman: What about in South America?
In the morning, they work on science projects. Lunchtime is
Man: Yes, it’s happening in some countries there, too.
at 12:30. Work starts again at one o’clock.
For example, in Chile, many women get married
In the afternoon, they fix things and make the space station
at around 31 or 32. For men, it’s around 33 or
tidy. Sometimes they take a spacewalk. They leave the
34.
space station and work outside. On the spacewalk, they
wear a special suit.
Track 54
From five to seven o’clock, they exercise to be healthy.
Woman: So, why are people getting married later?
Finally, at seven o’clock, they talk to people on Earth again.
Everyone talks about their day.
Man: There are many reasons. For example, more
people—especially women—are going to
In the evening, they have free time. They can study, relax,
college.
watch movies, or video chat with friends and family.
Woman: And that takes time.
The day finishes around ten-thirty. It’s time to go to bed.
Then they start all over again at 6:00 the next morning.
Man: Yes—and money. Also, both men and women
are working. They’ve got jobs . . . and busy
lives. These days, more people are thinking
Track 58
about school and work, not about getting
1. The movie starts at 8:15. 3. Class finishes at 3:13.
married and having a family when they’re
younger.
2. The movie starts at 8:50. 4. Class finishes at 3:30.

Track 55
Track 59
Hi everyone! How are you doing?
Jon: Let’s go to the park.
Today, my friend and I are eating lunch at our favorite
Mindy: But it’s too cold outside.
Peruvian restaurant: Carla’s Kitchen. It’s Carla Mendoza
Jon: We could see a movie.
and her husband’s restaurant. Their son and daughter work
Mindy: Great idea. How about an action movie?
there, too. The restaurant is famous for a chicken dish called
Jon: I don’t like action movies. We could see the new
pollo a la brasa. To make it, Carla uses her mother’s recipe.
Bong Joon Ho movie.
This really is a family business! Many people order the
chicken, but the menu has got lots of other things, too.
Mindy: That’s a good idea. He’s my favorite director.
What time does it start?
Jon: There’s a show at 8:15 and one at 11:30.
Track 56
Mindy: 11:30 is late. Let’s go to the early show.
OK, we’ve got our food and we’re ready to eat! I’m
Jon: Sounds good!
having the chicken dish, pollo a la brasa. It comes with fries
and a small salad, too. My friend is having two different
kinds of empanadas. One is a beef empanada. It’s got
Track 60
steak, onions, and tomatoes in it. The other is a vegetable
© National Geographic Learning
Making and responding to suggestions
empanada. It’s got spinach and cheese inside. Both
empanadas are big enough for a meal. And they are so
Making a suggestion
yummy!
Let’s go to the park.
Carla’s Kitchen has got great food, and it’s not expensive.
We could see a movie.
All this food with drinks—for me and my friend—is only
How about an action movie?
twenty-two dollars. For each person, that’s eleven dollars.
That’s pretty good.
Saying yes
So what are you waiting for? Carla’s Kitchen has got a great
That’s a good idea. / Good idea.
menu, friendly people, and fun music . . . we’re listening to
That’s a great idea. / Great idea.
some now!

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T291

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 291 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 450 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

That sounds good. / Sounds good.
Track 63

January 1 / January first
Saying no politely
September 2 / September second
I don’t really like action movies.
July 23 / July twenty-third
July 30 / July thirtieth
Track 61

What Type of Weekend Person Are You?
first / second / third / fourth / fifth / sixth / seventh / eighth /
ninth / tenth / twentieth / thirtieth
Most people work during the week and have fun on the
weekend. The weekend is a good time to go for a walk,
go shopping, or just hang out with friends. Not everyone
Track 64
relaxes on the weekend, though. Different people enjoy the
Diana: Thank you for calling. My name is Diana. How
weekend in different ways.
may I help you?
Read about these four types of people. What type of
Pedro: Hi, um, I have a ticket for a July trip. I want to
weekend person are you?
make a change.
THE COUCH POTATO
Diana: OK. What’s your last name, please?
What’s your perfect weekend? Sleeping late, watching TV,
Pedro: It’s Lopez. L – O – P – E – Z.
and playing video games. Some people are busy on the
Diana: OK, thanks. And your first name?
weekend, but not you! You’re happy to stay on the couch
Pedro: Pedro. P – E – D – R – O.
all day.
Diana: Thank you, Mr. Lopez. Now, let’s see. You’re
THE WORKAHOLIC
going from Vancouver, Canada to Mexico City.
You’re always busy: working, studying, talking on the
Pedro: Yes, that’s right.
phone, or checking emails. When you go out with friends on
Diana: You’re leaving on July 23 . . . and you return to
the weekend, you’re thinking about your work or your next
Canada on August 27.
exam.
Pedro: Yes . . . But I want to change the dates. Is that
THE HEALTH NUT
OK?
You want to get busy and do things! You usually wake
Diana: Um . . . let me see . . . [fade]
up early (yes, even on the weekend) and go for a walk, a
run, or a bike ride. All week, you’re sitting and looking at a
Track 65
computer screen. On the weekend, it’s time to exercise!
Diana: Thank you, Mr. Lopez. Now, let’s see. You’re
THE PARTY ANIMAL
going from Vancouver, Canada to Mexico City.
For you, the weekend is all about fun—and lots of it. Your
Pedro: Yes, that’s right.
night starts at 9:00 or 10:00. You go dancing or go to a
Diana: You’re leaving on July 23 . . . and you return to
party with friends. Then you go home late at night and sleep
Canada on August 27.
late the next day. Then you wake up in the afternoon and do
Pedro: Yes . . . But I want to change the dates. Is that
it all again!
OK?
Diana: Um . . . let me see . . . Yes, with your ticket,
Track 62
that’s fine. What are your new dates, Mr.
It’s 6 a.m. on Wednesday morning. What are most people
Lopez?
doing at this hour? Well, they’re probably sleeping . . . or
Pedro: I want to leave Vancouver on July 30.
they are just waking up. Soon, they will get dressed and go
Diana: OK . . .
to work or school.
It’s 6 a.m. at Kim’s house. Like most people, she’s going to
Pedro: And I want to return home on September 2.
work today, but not just yet. First, she’s doing something
Diana: OK, let me check. I’m sorry. That day isn’t
fun. She’s going dancing!
good.
© National Geographic Learning
Welcome to Daybreaker. Daybreaker is an early morning
Pedro: How about the third?
dance party. It lasts for three hours. There’s a DJ and many
Diana: Let’s see . . . yes, the third is OK. But, you
smiling, dancing people. Everyone is dancing hard. When
know, September 4 or 5 is better. Those days
the dancers get tired, they take a break. They can have a
are less expensive.
healthy snack or a juice. There’s also coffee to help you stay
Pedro: I’ll do the fourth then.
awake!
Diana: Great. So now you are leaving for Mexico City
The party finishes at 9:00 in the morning. Because it’s not
on July 30 and coming back to Vancouver on
the weekend, everyone then goes to work. Is it strange to
September 4.
go to work after a dance party? Maybe—but many people
say they feel happy from dancing. The exercise makes them
Pedro: That’s perfect.
feel good and they have more energy. And that helps them
Diana: Have a great trip, Mr. Lopez.
with their work.

T292 | STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 292 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 451 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Yes, it is. / No, it isn’t.
Track 66
Maybe.
Diana: Thank you for calling. My name is Diana. How
I’m not sure.
may I help you?
I don’t know.
Pedro: Hi, um, I have a ticket for a July trip. I want to
make a change.
I have no idea.
Diana: OK. What’s your last name, please?
Pedro: It’s Lopez. L – O – P – E – Z.
Track 69
Diana: OK, thanks. And your first name?
BURNING MAN: ART IN THE DESERT
Pedro: Pedro. P – E – D – R – O.
Every year in late August, more than 75,000 people travel to
Diana: Thank you, Mr. Lopez. Now, let’s see. You’re
the desert for the Burning Man event. This event takes place
going from Vancouver, Canada to Mexico City.
over nine days. At the event, people make a “city” there and
call it Black Rock City. There are streets but no cars in Black
Pedro: Yes, that’s right.
Rock City. People walk around or ride bicycles, but they
Diana: You’re leaving on July 23 . . . and you return to
don’t go fast. The speed limit is only 5 mph (8 kph). Most
Canada on August 27.
of the people stay in tents. People live simply. They cook
Pedro: Yes . . . But I want to change the dates. Is that
together, dance, perform, and make art. The performances
OK?
are free, and it doesn’t cost anything to look at the art.
Diana: Um . . . let me see . . . Yes, with your ticket,
It is very hot during the day—sometimes over 100°F (38°C).
that’s fine. What are your new dates, Mr. Lopez?
Most of the performances take place at night. Burning Man
Pedro: I want to leave Vancouver on July 30.
Information Radio is on 24 hours a day. It gives general
information about performances, art locations, and other
Diana: OK . . .
news.
Pedro: And I want to return home on September 2.
During the week, people build a large wooden man in
Diana: OK, let me check. I’m sorry. That day isn’t
the city. At the end of the week, they burn the man. Then
good.
everyone cleans up their area. There is one rule: everything
Pedro: How about the third?
you bring to the desert, you have to take home with you.
Diana: Let’s see . . . yes, the third is OK. But, you
Everyone leaves the desert. There is no more Black Rock
know, September 4 or 5 is better. Those days
City, until next August.
are less expensive.
Pedro: I’ll do the fourth then.
Track 70
Diana: Great. So now you are leaving for Mexico City
Every year in October, one city in the US celebrates a
on July 30 and coming back to Vancouver on
special event. It’s called the Albuquerque International
September 4.
Balloon Fiesta and it’s the largest balloon festival in the
Pedro: That’s perfect.
world. It lasts for nine days!
Diana: Have a great trip, Mr. Lopez.
At the festival, they have 100 special balloons in interesting
shapes. Some of the balloons look like animals. Others look
Track 67
like Elvis, or Darth Vader from Star Wars. There are also 550
traditional balloons. The balloons come from around the
Tony: It’s so crowded!
world—from 22 different countries, in fact.
Lena: And look! There’s a parade over there.
One evening, there is a balloon race. Eight teams from
Tony: Is today a holiday?
around the world compete to win the race. It’s very exciting
Lena: I’m not sure. Let me check my phone. OK, it
to watch!
says it’s St. Patrick’s Day . . .
Visitors come to watch the beautiful balloons. Some people
Tony: St. Patrick’s Day? What’s that?
also help with the balloons. They join teams to manage the
balloons. They help the balloons to go up and come back
Lena: I have no idea. Let me see . . . It says, “St.
down safely.
Patrick’s Day is on March 17.”
© National Geographic Learning
From only 13 balloons in 1972 to today . . . the International
Tony: That’s today.
Balloon Fiesta is a fun event to go to! I hope you can go
Lena: It also says, “On St. Patrick’s Day, people
someday.
celebrate all things Irish.”
Tony: Well, it looks like fun. Come on, let’s watch the
Track 71
parade!
Many cities today are expensive, and so college students
and other young people often live together with one or more
Track 68
roommates. What’s good about having a roommate? What’s
Saying you know or don’t know something
not so good about it? Let’s think about both questions.
Is today a holiday?

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T293

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 293 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 452 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

2. We usually do the chores together.
So, what’s good about having a roommate?
3. Sometimes we play video games. My roommate often
The first answer is easy. With a roommate, you save money.
wins.
Your roommate pays part of the rent and you pay part of it.
You share the cost. But that’s not all. You can go shopping
together for food or for things to clean the apartment. That’s
Track 76
another way to save money.
THE WONDERFUL GIFT OF FRIENDSHIP
Also, with a roommate, you can share the chores. Maybe
you do the dishes and your roommate takes out the
We all need friends. Friendships start and sometimes they
garbage. This way, you don’t do everything yourself.
change. How does that happen? Let’s take a closer look.
It’s also fun to have a roommate. With a roommate, you
How do friendships start?
aren’t alone. A roommate is like a friend: someone to talk to
Many important friendships start when we’re young.
about your day.
Sometimes we’re children. Other times, we’re in high school
or college. Two people meet and become best friends. The
friendship lasts a long time.
Track 72
Very often, it’s easy to make new friends when we’re
What’s not so good about having a roommate?
younger. There are some reasons for this. For one, we often
Maybe you and your roommate are different. For example,
make new friends at work or at school, or we live in the
maybe you clean often but your roommate doesn’t.
same neighborhood as our friends. We spend a lot of time
You cook and your roommate does, too. But then your
near each other, and it’s easy to get together.
roommate never does the dishes . . . or takes out the
Also, we have more free time when we’re young. We have
garbage. That can be a problem.
many chances to hang out with our friends and have fun.
Sometimes, noise is a problem, too. Maybe your roommate
When we do activities together, we become close friends.
listens to loud music when you are studying or sleeping.
How do friendships change?
That’s not good.
When we’re older, some friendships change. How does this
These things are hard, but when you and your roommate
happen? We now have a job. Some of us have a family. Our
have a problem, try to talk about it. If that doesn’t work, it’s
lives are very busy. We don’t have a lot of time to hang out
time to move!
with friends.
Also, some of us move away from our friends. We don’t live
Track 73
near our friends anymore and it’s hard to keep in touch. We
don’t do things together, and over time, this changes the
Emilio: Hey, guys.
friendship.
Adam: Hey, Emilio. What’s up? Do you want to join us?
And finally, we change as we get older. Our personalities
Emilio: Thanks, but not tonight. Actually, I’m trying to
are different. We want to do different things. We spend time
sleep and the game is a little loud.
with different—and new—friends.
Adam: Oh, sorry about that!
Emilio: No problem. I don’t usually go to bed this early,
Track 77
but I have a big test in the morning.
This story starts in 1989. Jessica Stuart is a nine-year-old
Adam: We’ll be quiet.
girl, living in Canada. Her family moves from Canada to
Emilio: Great. Thanks.
Saku City, a small city in Japan.
Adam: Sure. Good luck with the test tomorrow.
Jessica goes to elementary school. She doesn’t speak
Japanese and she doesn’t have any friends. But soon she
makes friends with a girl named Fukue. Fukue is a student,
Track 74
too, and she helps Jessica. They become close friends.
Apologizing
Jessica and Fukue hang out together all the time. Fukue
Making an apology
teaches Jessica Japanese, and she learns English from
I’m sorry. / Sorry.
Jessica.
I’m sorry about that. / Sorry about that.
© National Geographic Learning
I’m really sorry.
Track 78

This story starts in 1989. Jessica Stuart is a nine-year-old
Responding to an apology
girl, living in Canada. Her family moves from Canada to
No problem.
Saku City, a small city in Japan.
That’s OK. / That’s all right.
Jessica goes to elementary school. She doesn’t speak
Don’t worry about it.
Japanese and she doesn’t have any friends. But soon she
makes friends with a girl named Fukue. Fukue is a student,
too, and she helps Jessica. They become close friends.
Track 75

1. My roommate is never home. He’s always working.

T294 | STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 294 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 453 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Jessica and Fukue hang out together all the time. Fukue
Track 82
teaches Jessica Japanese, and she learns English from
Max: So, Jun, how’s your new place?
Jessica.
Jun: Great. Look, I’ve got some photos on my
After one year, Jessica and her family move back to
phone.
Canada. She and Fukue write letters to keep in touch. Over
Max: Nice. It’s big.
time, though, they stop writing. They don’t keep in touch.
Jun: Yeah, and the rent is cheap.
The years pass. Jessica is now a musician in Canada.
She wants to meet her old friend again. Jessica returns to
Max: Really? That’s great.
Japan. She’s looking for Fukue.
Jun: Yeah, I like it. There’s just one problem.
After many years, it isn’t easy to find Fukue. First, she finds
Max: What’s that?
Fukue’s sister. The sister gives Jessica Fukue’s phone
Jun: There’s no elevator and I’m on the fifth floor.
number. The two friends meet again . . . for the first time in
Max: No way. So you walk up and down the stairs
30 years! The two friends remember each other and their
every day?
happy time together.
Jun: Yeah. It’s not easy!

Track 79
Track 83
SUMMER FESTIVAL: OUTDOORS IN THE CITY!
Jun: It’s a big place and the rent is cheap.
Do you live and work in the city? Do you also like to spend
time outdoors? Well, we have an exciting festival for you!
Max: Really? That’s great.
For 10 days in August, our outdoor festival has many free
Narrator: Now, it’s your turn. Reply to Jun.
events at different places around the city.
Many people attend the festival with their friends and family.
Jun: It’s a big place and the rent is cheap.
Other people come alone and make new friends. Everyone
Jun: There’s no elevator and I’m on the fifth floor.
gets along at the festival!
Max: No way.
Our festival is always very popular, so get your tickets online
soon!
Narrator: Now, it’s your turn. Reply to Jun.
Jun: There’s no elevator and I’m on the fifth floor.
Track 80

Welcome to the Copan—one of São Paulo’s most famous
Track 84
buildings. Maybe you know it? The building is in movies, TV
Showing Surprise
shows, books, and video games.
Said with rising intonation
The Copan Building opened in 1962. Today, it’s home
to many different kinds of people: students and families,
Really?
business people, and artists.
Are you serious?
The building has 38 floors, 20 elevators, and over one
thousand apartments. Five thousand people live in the
Said with falling intonation
building. It’s like a small city in the large city of São Paulo.
You’re kidding.
No way.
Track 81

There are many different kinds of apartments in the Copan
Track 85
Building. Let’s go inside one on the 23rd floor. From this
THE POWER OF COLOR
apartment, there’s a view of the city of São Paulo.
What are the best colors for rooms in your home?
The apartment has one large room. In it, there are two
We see color everywhere. It makes our world beautiful, but
beds—one large and one small. There’s also a small kitchen
it can also affect our feelings and behavior. For this reason,
area for cooking meals. And there’s a bathroom with a large
it is important to use the right colors in different rooms in
© National Geographic Learning
shower.
a home. For example, use light colors (light blue, green, or
In this apartment, there’s no washing machine, but there are
gray) in a bedroom or living area. They help us feel relaxed.
places to do laundry on the ground floor of the building.
Other colors—like red, orange, and yellow—are different.
Also on the ground floor are over 70 businesses. There are
They make us feel alert and sometimes hungry, studies
many stores and popular restaurants. There’s also a gym
show. For this reason, they can be good to use in a dining
and an art gallery in the building.
area or a kitchen.
And finally, the subway is a five-minute walk from the
A room with some red, orange, or yellow can also feel
Copan. It’s easy to go anywhere in the city of São Paulo
happy, so these colors can be good in a living area. But
from here.
these colors are very strong, and it’s best to only use a little

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T295

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 295 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 454 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

of them. People can feel nervous in rooms with too many
be cold, so she dresses warmly. Before she goes outside,
dark or bright colors.
she puts on two pairs of socks and a pair of boots. On her
legs, she wears three pairs of pants. And she also has to
Other colors help us work or study. Many people think
wear four jackets. It’s a lot of clothing, but she stays warm.
white walls and bright lights are best for this. But people are
often uncomfortable in this kind of room. Sometimes in a
M. Jackson’s job isn’t easy, but she likes it a lot!
bright white room, it’s too hard to think. Instead, use white
with another color, especially light blue. In a home office or
Track 89
a room for studying, light blue and white can help people
relax and think better.
Store Clerk: Buon giorno.
Jin: Um, hello. Do you speak English?
Track 86
Store Clerk: Yes, I do. Can I help you?
Jin: Oh, yeah . . . thanks. I’m shopping for a gift
These days, apartment buildings in many large cities have
for my sister.
micro-apartments. These small places are sometimes
cheaper, but there can be problems with them. Let’s look at
Store Clerk: I see. Well, we have these nice silk scarves.
three.
Jin: They’re very pretty. How much are they?
Problem one. Most micro-apartments have only one small
Store Clerk: Sixty euros.
room. And sometimes, this small room is very dark.
Jin: Sixty euros? OK, I’ll think about it.
Problem two. In a small room, sometimes there’s no space
Store Clerk: We also have T-shirts . . . like this Roma
for all your things. Everything is everywhere. Books, papers,
one.
and clothes are on the desk or the chairs. There’s no place
Jin: Oh, that’s cool. How much is it?
to sit and work comfortably.
Store Clerk: Nineteen euros.
Problem three. In a small room, sometimes the furniture is
too big. Then the room feels crowded and uncomfortable.
Jin: That’s perfect. I’ll take it.

Track 87
Track 90
Problem one. Most micro-apartments have only one small
Saying what you want
room. And sometimes, this small room is very dark.
I’m looking for a gift for my sister.
To fix this problem, use light colors in the room—especially
Asking for and giving prices
white or light gray. These colors make a small room feel
more open and bright.
How much are they?
Problem two. In a small room, sometimes there’s no space
They’re 60 euros.
for all your things. Everything is everywhere. Books, papers,
OK, I’ll think about it.
and clothes are on the desk or the chairs. There’s no place
How much is the T-shirt?
to sit and work comfortably.
It’s 19 euros.
To fix this problem, use bookshelves and wall hooks to
I’ll take it.
organize your things. Then put your things on the shelves
and hooks. When you do this, there will be space to sit and
work comfortably in the room.
Track 91
Problem three. In a small room, sometimes the furniture is
In spoken English, want to can sound like “wanna.” Instead
too big. Then the room feels crowded and uncomfortable.
of hearing I want to go, you might hear “I wanna go.”
To fix this problem, use folding furniture. For example, don’t
Also, have to can sound like “hafta.” Instead of hearing
use a desk in a small room . . . use a folding table. When
I have to go, you might hear “I hafta go.”
you finish working, put the table in a closet or under other
1
furniture.
Female: I have to buy a new sweater. This one has a big
Try doing these three things, and your small space can feel
hole in it.
bigger, brighter, and more comfortable.
© National Geographic Learning
2
Male: I want to visit Jamaica on my summer vacation.
Track 88
3
M. Jackson is a scientist. She travels around the world. She
Female: You have to dress up. You have to wear a long
goes to cold places and studies ice. Sometimes she brings
dress.
students with her. The students take photos of the ice. They
also write stories or make podcasts. The students get to
4
learn about the ice and see it for themselves.
Male: I have free time now. Do you want to do
M. Jackson sometimes goes down into ice caves. The
something?
caves are beautiful, but they are also cold. M doesn’t like to

T296 | STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 296 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 455 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Sister: They look nice, but the color is kind of light.
Track 92
Diego: I have some darker ones. They’re brown.
BUSINESS CASUAL . . . WHAT’S THAT?
Sister: That sounds better. Well, good luck with your
What do people wear when they go to work every day?
interview!
There isn’t one easy answer to this question. The dress
Diego: Thanks!
code (a set of style rules for a group of people) in one office
is different from the dress code in another. But there is one
style that is more popular at work these days. It’s called
Track 94
“business casual.” What is it exactly?
Today, robots are a part of our daily lives, and they do many
Business casual is a kind of dress code. It’s not too dressy
jobs. In the US, for example, robots clean large stores. In
and not too casual. For men, it means “no suit,” but also
some parks in Singapore, they’re security guards. In Japan,
“no sneakers.” In this style, men wear a nice dress shirt with
robots are receptionists in some hotels. In many countries,
a dark colored jacket (for example, navy blue). They also
they are also servers in restaurants.
wear dress pants in gray or light gray, but not black. A nice
pair of jeans is OK, too. The pants aren’t baggy. On their
In some places, robots are also managers in stores, hotels,
feet, they wear brown dress shoes and boots in the winter.
and even software companies. Some people are worried
about this. When a person—like a software developer or
Women wear a nice blouse and a fitted jacket. The blouse
hotel maid—is working too slowly, the robot tells the person
covers their shoulders. They also wear nice dress pants,
to go faster. What’s that like for the worker? Sometimes, it’s
or jeans, or a medium-length skirt. On their feet, flats
very stressful.
(comfortable shoes without heels), are OK, but flip-flops
(light rubber sandals) are not.
In other jobs, robots are working together with people—and
they’re a big help. In many countries, for example, robots
Men say they like business casual because they don’t
work in hospitals as nurses’ aides. They clean the rooms
have to wear a tie. Women like it, too—they don’t have to
and bring things to the nurses. This gives nurses more time
wear heels. Business casual isn’t too dressy. That’s more
to be with people.
comfortable for everyone.
Today, robots are doing many jobs. Some people say this
is a good thing. Others disagree. Only one thing is for sure:
Track 93
robots are here to stay.
Sister: Where are you going, Diego?
Diego: Oh, hi. I have a job interview today. I’m really
Track 95
excited!
In some places, robots are also managers in stores, hotels,
Sister: That’s great. But, um . . . can I say something?
and even software companies. Some people are worried
Diego: Sure, of course.
about this. When a person—like a software developer or
hotel maid—is working too slowly, the robot tells the person
Sister: Your clothes . . . they’re nice, but they don’t
to go faster. What’s that like for the worker? Sometimes, it’s
match.
very stressful.
Diego: What do you mean?
Sister: Well, you’re wearing a brown jacket with black
Track 96
pants.
Diego: OK.
In other jobs, robots are working together with people—and
they’re a big help. In many countries, for example, robots
Sister: And you’re wearing a blue shirt with a bright red
work in hospitals as nurses’ aides. They clean the rooms
tie.
and bring things to the nurses. This gives nurses more time
Diego: Well, I can wear a different jacket.
to be with people.
Sister: No, I like the jacket. I think you need to change
your pants. They’re too dressy.
Track 97
Diego: Uh, I have some gray dress pants.
Miko: Are you coming to the park with us tomorrow,
Sister: That’s perfect. Say, what job are you
Gabe?
interviewing for?
© National Geographic Learning
Gabe: No, sorry. I have to work.
Diego: It’s at school. It’s a part-time job with one of my
professors.
Miko: Oh, you’ve got a job? What do you do?
Sister: Oh, you don’t need to wear a tie then.
Gabe: I’m a game developer.
Diego: No tie? Really?
Miko: Cool. So what’s that like?
Sister: Well, you know your professor, right? A tie
Gabe: It’s fun, but the hours are long. Sometimes I
seems kind of dressy.
work twelve hours a day.
Diego: I guess you’re right. . . . OK, no tie. Hey, do you
Miko: That’s a lot. Who do you work for?
like my shoes? They’re new.
Gabe: A startup here in the city.

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T297

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 297 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 456 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Side hustles in beauty and fashion are very popular. People
Track 98
work as hairstylists, makeup artists, or even personal
A: What do you do? A: Who do you work for?
shoppers.
B: I’m a game developer. B: A startup here in the city.
Tutoring is another popular side hustle. People help others
with school subjects—like math or science. But people
teach many other things, too—like music, for example . . .
Track 99
or even cooking.
Talking about Jobs
A third popular side hustle is making and selling things
What do you do?
online. People make everything from jewelry and
I’m a game developer. I’m an office manager.
clothing . . . to things for the home. Then they sell these
things on different websites and make money.
I work in a hotel. I work in a bank. I work in a cafe.
In reality, anything can be a side hustle. Just ask yourself:
I work for Apple. I work for Toyota.
What can I do? And then get to work. You’ll make money,
get experience . . . and who knows? Maybe your part-time
Track 100
side hustle can become a full-time job!
Working in Two Languages
In the world today, it helps to be bilingual. When you speak
Track 103
two languages, you have more choices. You can get a job in
What are two of the bestselling products ever on Shark
many different fields. In this article, we look at two of them.
Tank? The answers are a little surprising. One is socks.
The other is a kitchen sponge. Today, both products make
Travel & Tourism
millions of dollars every year.
Across the world, one in every ten jobs today is in travel
and tourism. Millions of people work in this field, and many
of them are bilingual. The jobs with the best pay are usually
Track 104
in management. Bilingual hotel and sales managers, for
What are two of the bestselling products ever on Shark
example, can make good money. Some managers have
Tank? The answers are a little surprising. One is socks.
hospitality degrees. But many others start in different jobs
The other is a kitchen sponge. Today, both products make
(for example, hotel clerk). They get experience and then, in
millions of dollars every year.
time, they work their way up into management.
Why are the socks so popular? The answer is simple. Many
Healthcare
regular socks are uncomfortable. Some are too loose. Other
socks are too tight.
Today, there is a nursing shortage. Worldwide, there are
about 28 million nurses and we need almost six million
But the socks from Shark Tank are different. They’re very
more. In big cities in a number of countries, hospitals
comfortable—they fit perfectly. They also last a long time,
especially need bilingual nurses. Nursing jobs are different
even after many washes. The socks are also stylish. They
from many travel and tourism jobs: you need a degree to
come in many colors—from blue and gray to bright pink
get one.
and purple. But the socks aren’t cheap. One pair of casual
socks is eighteen dollars or more.
And what about the kitchen sponge—why is it so popular?
Track 101
Again, the answer is simple. Everyone has to do dishes,
Today, more students and people with full-time jobs are
but many regular sponges don’t clean things very well,
working a side hustle to make extra money. A side hustle
especially in cold water. Also, some sponges are too big;
is a job you do a few hours a week. Usually, you work for
they’re hard to hold and use.
yourself, not a company. In many cases, a person’s side
But the kitchen sponge from Shark Tank is different. It
hustle is also their hobby.
changes in cold water, so it cleans dishes better. Also, the
sponge is small, so it’s comfortable to hold. It also lasts a
Track 102
long time. And best of all, this product isn’t expensive. A
© National Geographic Learningpack of four sponges is about five dollars.
Just like there are many different hobbies, there are also lots
of things you can do as a side hustle. So, what are some of
the most popular ones these days?

T298 | STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 298 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 457 ────────

A Quick Guide to Using the World Link Videos

The World Link Videos

The World Link video program provides stimulating and exciting video material, offering both audio
and visual input as well as opportunities for follow-up conversation practice. Each World Link unit
features five video segments: the in-unit Warm-Up and Global Voices videos, as well as Good
Morning World, City Living, and Global Viewpoints.

• The Warm-Up videos were curated for English language learners from a variety of sources, including
National Geographic and YouTube. They feature stories from people and cultures around the world.

• The Global Voices videos feature personal stories from National Geographic Explorers and other
change makers who are working to make the world a better place.

• Good Morning World is a morning show program featuring interviews, discussions, and
demonstrations in the style of talk shows. The hosts, Jay Jones and Kim Kimal, welcome many
guests and discuss various topics associated with the themes and language presented in the
World Link Student’s Books.

• City Living is a series of original dramatic episodes, filmed in an engaging sitcom-like style.
They focus on the lives of six young people from a variety of international backgrounds living
in New York City. Each episode reinforces and expands upon the language presented in the
corresponding unit of the Student’s Books.

• Global Viewpoints are real-life interviews in which a wide range of students and professional
people from around the world present their personal views on issues related to unit topics.

The World Link Video Worksheets

The Warm-Up video program is included as an introduction to each unit’s theme. Careful scaffolding
is provided in the Teacher’s Book so that teachers have the support they need to successfully
teach each video. Additionally, the video exercises are fully extractable from the student book unit,
making it ideal for classroom use or, in a flipped-classroom model, independent student work at
home. The Global Voices videos are also included in the Student’s Book. These exercises are also
extractable with teacher support provided in the Teacher’s Book. The 36 printable video worksheets
that correspond to the three remaining video segments are available on My World Link Online and
the teacher companion site as a downloadable resource. The worksheets are designed to facilitate
effective use of the World Link videos in the classroom or outside of class, for homework or extra
practice. There are three worksheets per unit, one for each video segment. The first worksheet
focuses on Good Morning World, the second on City Living, and the last on Global Viewpoints.
The worksheets integrate pre-viewing, viewing, and post-viewing exercises into complete
video-based lessons.

Using the Good Morning World Segments
© National Geographic Learning
The Good Morning World worksheet includes two viewing exercises and one communicative exercise.

• Viewing exercises (1A / 1B) focus on video comprehension by asking students to watch and
listen for specific information. Exercise formats vary from unit to unit, but typically take the form of
true / false, multiple choice, circling, checking, or sentence-completion exercises.

• Communicative exercises (1C) encourage students to apply in the classroom what they learned
in the video. These exercises are intended to motivate students to think about the practical
applications of the topics and the language presented in the video.

A QUICK GUIDE TO USING THE WORLD LINK VIDEOS | T299

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 299 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 458 ────────

A Quick Guide to Using the World Link Videos

Using the City Living Segments

The City Living worksheet contains three exercise types: pre-viewing, viewing, and post-viewing.

• Pre-viewing exercises (2A) usually take the form of a schema-generating discussion question
(“Are you nervous at job interviews? Why or why not? Tell a partner.”) or a brainstorming exercise
(“Why do people use smartphones so often? List all the reasons you can think of.”). Pre-viewing
exercises are most effective when presented in class as discussion-generating exercises and
sufficient time is allowed for all students to present and discuss their views.

• Viewing exercises (2B) focus on video comprehension. As with Good Morning World, students
are asked to watch and listen for specific information. Discussion is invited by having students
compare answers with a partner. More involved classroom discussion may be stimulated by
asking students to give reasons for their answers.

• Post-viewing exercises (2C) encourage students to express their personal opinions and reactions
to the characters and events in the City Living episode. As with the viewing exercises, more
elaborate discussion can be encouraged by asking students to provide reasons for their
answers. In some cases, post-viewing exercises can be used as the basis for optional writing
assignments. For example, students can be asked to write a paragraph explaining one or all of
their answers.

Using the Global Viewpoints Segments

The Global Viewpoints worksheet contains two exercise types: two viewing exercises followed by a
communicative exercise.

• Viewing exercises (3A / 3B) are similar to those found in the Good Morning World and City
Living worksheets. In the Global Viewpoints worksheet, these exercises typically take the form
of true / false, multiple choice, circling, checking, or sentence-completion exercises.

• Communicative exercises (3C) are always fun or game-like exercises designed to stimulate
conversation in pairs, groups, or the whole class. Exercises often take the form of opinion
surveys and discussions that encourage students to share personal experiences, ideas, and
feelings related to the themes explored in the unit.

General Suggestions for Using the World Link Videos

• Familiarize yourself with the videos. Before showing a segment to the class, view it yourself and
try doing the exercises. In this way, you will be able to anticipate questions students may have
about the segment.

• Allow students to view the videos more than once. In order to carry out these viewing exercises,
students may need to view an individual segment several times. Play the segment as often as
students feel is necessary to complete the exercise.

• Clarify directions for viewing exercises. Focus students’ attention more effectively on the task at© National Geographic Learning
hand by making sure they understand the directions before you play the video segment.

• Know your video equipment. Practice with the computer or DVD player you will be using in class
so that you can easily locate and play the appropriate segment.

T300 | A QUICK GUIDE TO USING THE WORLD LINK VIDEOS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 300 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 459 ────────

A Quick Guide to Using the World Link Videos

Using Video in the Classroom
Video is one of the most useful aids available for language teaching. It is motivating. It shows how
people speak to each other. It is excellent for teaching both behavior and body language. It shows
the culture of the people using the language. It is one of the best ways of communicating meaning
and stimulating student discussion. But how can you exploit these advantages most effectively in the
classroom? There are several useful techniques you can use to add variety to your classroom lessons
and to make more effective use of video in the classroom.

The following are descriptions of five basic techniques for using video in the classroom: silent viewing,
pause / freeze frame, sound only, split viewing, and normal viewing. These tactics have been incorporated
into the Teacher’s Book scaffolding for the Warm-Up videos and new Global Voices videos. With these
descriptions are suggestions for specific teaching exercises based on each technique.

1. Silent Viewing

This technique, which involves playing the video with the sound off and showing only the images,
can be used to stimulate student interest and language use about what is being shown on the
screen (rather than what can be heard) or to get students to focus on what is being said through
the use of a variety of guessing and prediction tasks. Playing a short video sequence with the
sound turned off not only helps students concentrate on the situation, but it also stimulates their
imagination. Some classroom exercises based on the Silent Viewing technique are:

• What are they saying?
Show a dramatic scene with short exchanges of dialog, where the action, emotions, setting, and
situation give clues to what is being said by the characters. Students watch the scene with the
sound off and guess or predict what the characters are saying. Then they watch the scene with
the sound on and compare their guesses and predictions with what the characters actually say.

• What’s happening?
Write the following three questions on the board or dictate them to students:
Where are the people?
Who are they?
What’s happening?
Students watch a dramatic scene and use the questions as a guide to help them guess the gist
of the situation rather than the exact words used by the characters.

• What’s the conversation?
Students watch a dramatic scene, preferably one involving a conversation between two people.
Then they work in pairs and try to write an appropriate dialog to accompany the pictures.
Students practice their dialog in pairs and then take turns performing the dialog in front of the
class. Finally, students watch the scene again, this time with the sound on, and compare their
dialog with the dialog that is actually used in the video.

• © National Geographic LearningWhat did you see?
Students watch a video sequence and then write a descriptive commentary on what they see.

A QUICK GUIDE TO USING THE WORLD LINK VIDEOS | T301

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 301 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 460 ────────

A Quick Guide to Using the World Link Videos

2. Pause / Freeze Frame

This technique, which involves using the pause button to stop the video while keeping a still
picture frozen on the screen, can be used with either the sound on or off. The Pause / Freeze
Frame technique is useful for concentrating on a single image or sentence in a video sequence.
It is ideal for studying language in detail. For additional language reinforcement, it can be used in
conjunction with displaying the subtitles that accompany each World Link video sequence. Some
classroom exercises based on the Pause / Freeze Frame technique are:

• Listen and say
Students watch a video sequence twice with the sound on. During the first viewing, they simply
follow the story. During the second viewing, use the pause function to stop the video from time
to time so that students can repeat the line just spoken. Encourage students to use the same
intonation and stress patterns as the speakers. Offer opportunities for individual students to
repeat the lines, as well as for the whole class to repeat the lines in chorus.

• Tell me what you see
Play a video sequence with the sound off and pause at a convenient point to show a still image.
Students work in pairs and take turns describing what they see. As a variation, instead of using a
single image, you can pause at several different points where specific items come into prominence.

• Guess the next line
Students watch a dramatic sequence, preferably one involving a conversation between two
characters, with the sound on. During the viewing, pause the video at several different points,
always just after one character has asked a question or said a sentence to which the second
character is expected to respond. Students guess what the second character will say in
response to what the first character has said. After eliciting suggested responses from students,
play the video and allow students to hear the actual response used in the video. After going
through a sequence in this manner, play the entire sequence again straight through without
pausing so that students have a chance to follow the dialog spoken at its natural pace.

3. Sound Only

This technique involves playing the video with the sound on and no picture. (Cover the screen
with a cloth, a coat, or a large piece of paper.) With Sound Only, students listen and concentrate
on what they hear, rather than what they see. As with Silent Viewing, the creation of an information
gap stimulates the imagination and student language use. Some classroom exercises based on the
Sound Only technique are:

• Describe the person
Choose a video sequence in which one character speaks continuously for at least 10 or 15
seconds. On the board, write a list of words that students are likely to need to describe the
character; for example: old, young, tall, short, nice, mean. Play the video sequence with sound
only. Students listen and write down the words they feel describe the character. Students then
© National Geographic Learning
work in pairs or small groups, comparing and giving reasons for their answers. Elicit some
answers (and reasons for them) from the class. Then replay the sequence with sound and picture
so that students can modify or confirm their original answers.

• Describe the scene
Select a video sequence in which the sound gives some clues as to the location, number of
characters, and general situation of the scene. Write the following questions on the board or
dictate them to students:
Where does the scene take place?
How many characters are in it?
T302 | A QUICK GUIDE TO USING THE WORLD LINK VIDEOS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 302 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 461 ────────

A Quick Guide to Using the World Link Videos

How are they dressed?
What are their ages?
What is their relationship?
What are they doing?

Play the sequence with sound only. Students listen and then work in pairs or small groups asking
and answering the questions and giving reasons for their answers. Finally, play the scene again,
this time with sound and picture. Students discuss the questions again, taking into consideration
the new information they now have from the pictures.

4. Split Viewing

The technique of Split Viewing involves having some students see a video sequence and hear
the sound, while other students only hear the sound. Some exercises based on the Split Viewing
technique are:

• Tell me what happened
This exercise is a lot like a game. Divide the class into pairs. One student in each pair is a
listener who faces away from the screen. The other student is a watcher who faces the screen.
Play the video. Listeners listen only. When the sequence ends, the watchers have three minutes
to tell the listeners what they saw. At the end, encourage one or two listeners to sum up the story.
Then replay the episode for all students to watch. At the end, the listeners and the watchers
compare their earlier versions with what actually happens in the video.

• Find out what happened
This exercise follows a procedure similar to that described above, but instead of watchers telling
listeners what happened, the listeners have to ask the watchers questions to find out what
happened. After listeners have interviewed watchers, call on listeners to report the information
they find out. This is all useful practice in asking questions and reporting information.

5. Normal Viewing

As you would expect, the technique of Normal Viewing involves watching the video with sound
and picture, the way most people normally watch TV or a video. There are numerous exercises
based on this technique, and only a few of them are listed here. The most common and popular
techniques that involve Normal Viewing are:

• Role-play
Select a video sequence with a conversation involving two or three characters. Divide the class
into groups composed of the same number of students as there are characters in the video
sequence. Play the sequence twice. Students’ task is to study the situation in the video and
then role-play the same situation using whatever words or other means they wish. After students
have viewed the sequence twice, allow the groups five minutes or so to practice role-playing the
situation in the video. Finally, groups take turns performing their role plays for the class, using
© National Geographic Learning
their own words, actions, and gestures. Role-playing is an excellent way of having students use
the language they have learned. With role plays, students concentrate not just on the language
people use, but also on how they behave.

• Change!
This is a variation of role-playing (above). In large classes, each group prepares the role of one
character. It then nominates one of its members to play that character. During the role play,
members can be substituted by the teacher calling “Change!” or by another group member
tapping the role-player on the shoulder and replacing him or her.

A QUICK GUIDE TO USING THE WORLD LINK VIDEOS | T303

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 303 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 462 ────────

A Quick Guide to Using the World Link Videos

• Behavior study
In this exercise, students watch a dramatic sequence, imagine a similar situation in their own
country, and examine the differences in behavior. Select a video sequence that illustrates two or
three incidents of behavior that are culturally different from students’ own culture. Ask students
to observe the video carefully. Play the video sequence and pause after each incident. Elicit
information about what the people in the video said and did and how this differs from students’
culture. For example, watch how the people greet each other. Play the relevant part of the
sequence and elicit from the class:
a. where the people are.
b. what they say.
c. what they do.
d. what their relationship is.
e. how they would act differently in students’ own culture, using students’ native language.

• Comparing situations
Two or three incidents or sequences can be contrasted to allow students to compare behavior
in two different situations (e.g., people greeting each other at a party and people greeting each
other at a business meeting).

• Prediction
Before having students watch a scene, tell the class where the scene takes place and ask them
to predict eight to ten things they might see in the video. For example, for a scene that takes
place in a kitchen, students might predict the following: an apple, a cake, a cook, a stove, a
table, a spoon, a sink, a chair, a refrigerator. Play the video. Students watch and call out the
names of the predicted items as they see them in the video.

• Thinking and feeling
As much as the words we use, our body language—posture, gestures, and facial expressions—
conveys what we really think and feel. An interesting and valuable exercise involves describing
what characters in a video are thinking and feeling, using clues from the dialog and the body
language they use. To carry out this exercise, start by pre-teaching a number of words students
can use to describe feelings exhibited by a character or characters in the video; for example,
angry, irritated, furious, curious, surprised, disappointed, unhappy, worried. Students’ task is
to watch the video and name the feelings being expressed. Play the video, stopping at crucial
points to focus on a character. Ask students which word describes the character’s emotions or
feelings at that point and have them give reasons for their answers.

• Telling the story
Students can watch a video and then produce an oral or written summary of the story.
Alternatively, they can watch a video and make up a story about the events leading up to what
they saw on the video or about what may happen next. Using video to get students to make up a
story is an excellent way of getting students to recycle language they have learned and use it in
original ways for their own purposes.© National Geographic Learning

T304 | A QUICK GUIDE TO USING THE WORLD LINK VIDEOS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 304 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 463 ────────

Warm-Up Video Scripts

UNIT 1
Carlos’s Day

Mom: Goodbye, Carlos!

Carlos: Bye!

Mom: Carlos!

Narrator: His name is Carlos. He’s a student. Her name is Ana. She’s a student.

Carlos: Hi.

Ana: Hello.

Carlos: Bye!

Boy: See you!

Carlos: Hi! I’m home!

Mom: Carlos!

UNIT 2
Speeding Around the World in Under Five Minutes

[music only]

UNIT 3
What Do You Carry With You?

I have a lot of stuff. I have a lot of important stuff.

I’ll start with Lactaid.

Cell phone with a WALL-E cover.

Car keys.

A rental Jeep keys.

An apple.

I have a little tape measure.

A tape measure?

Yeah.

Safety kit, snacks.

Lipstick.

The lottery.

My wallet.
© National Geographic Learning
A Ring Pop bag for my Ring Pop.

2005 Frommer’s Guide to L.A.

Oh, nope, can’t take that out.

I’ve got my camera, a prime lens, an American cell phone, face wash, sunscreen, hand cream, hay
fever tablet, eye drop, Kit Kat, baggage, and my passport. That’s pretty much everything.

What do I have here that means a lot to me?

My phone. It’s my office. Got to have it.

WARM-UP VIDEO SCRIPTS | T305

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 305 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 464 ────────

Warm-Up Video Scripts

I have to have a lot of things, but all of those things have to go in this bag. And it’s been to every
country I’ve ever visited. It’s sort of falling apart and stuff, which I’m really sad about because it’s
going to die soon, but I continue to use it until the day it breaks. And then I will cry.

Of course, my red lipstick. More lipsticks. As you can see, I don’t even wear even one lipstick, but I’ve
lots of them.

This ring that I’m wearing, it belonged to my grandmother. I feel like I’m carrying a piece of her with me.

She’s like my—my star.

This is a thank-you card, “Have a wonderful time. Lots of love, Rita.” And she wrote at the bottom,
“Thank you for such a lovely, memorable day.”

It would have to be the SD card. Even when I don’t have a camera, for some reason I keep it. Making
YouTube videos has gotten me to Chicago. It’s going to take me to New York in a couple of days, and
just having this with me always reminds me that what I’m doing is meaningful and that I should just
keep going no matter what anyone else says.

UNIT 4
Day in the Life of a College Student

Leah: Hi, I’m Leah! I’m a first-year college student. I’m studying business here at the university. I’m
very busy and my friends are, too. Here’s a look at what we’re doing today.

This is my roommate, Sophia, and our friend, Dan. They’re in the library right now. Sophia’s studying
history, so she’s always busy reading and writing papers. I think that she’s working on a research
project.

Here’s my classmate, Emile. He’s exercising. He’s on the soccer team, so he spends a lot of time at
the gym.

And there’s Renee. She’s eating lunch and talking on the phone before class.

Some of the classes here are big, but this one is pretty small. My professor is teaching us new math
theories. I think it’s really interesting. Not all of my friends agree with me, though.

After class, I see my friend Paolo. It’s nice out, so we’re sitting outside and doing homework. Paolo
is studying for a test tomorrow. And, of course, we’re drinking coffee. A college student is always
drinking coffee.

Life here is busy, but it’s also very interesting. I really like it here.

UNIT 5
Fun Facts About Pizza

Ah, pizza! People everywhere love pizza . . . and everyone likes a good pizza party!

The three main parts of pizza are dough, tomato sauce, and cheese.

Pizza comes from Italy. Over 100 years ago, Italians come to New York City. They bring pizza with
them. At first, people don’t know about pizza. But then it becomes popular all over the US and the
world. Today, pizza is a favorite snack in many different countries.
© National Geographic Learning
Let’s learn some fun facts about pizza.

Neapolitan pizza is one kind of pizza. It is named after a city in Italy. Can you guess the city? That’s
right, Neapolitan pizza comes from Naples, Italy.

Margherita pizza has soft white cheese, red tomatoes, and green basil. These are the same colors
of the Italian flag: white, red, and green. It’s named after Queen Margherita of Italy. Her favorite pizza
was this one.

Other countries have similar foods to pizza. For example, there’s lahmacun from Turkey. It’s different. It
has no cheese!

In Japan, people like to eat okonomiyaki. It has cabbage in it.

T306 | WARM-UP VIDEO SCRIPTS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 306 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 465 ────────

Warm-Up Video Scripts

There are many different kinds of pizzas and many different kinds of pizza shops, too. Some of the
shops are famous.

Parasite is the name of a famous Korean movie. Sky Pizza, a shop in Seoul, South Korea is in the
movie. There are many fans of the movie. They like to visit Sky Pizza.

How much pizza can you eat in one hour? A restaurant in Baghdad, Iraq, has a pizza eating contest.
There is one very large pizza for each person. They have one hour to eat pizza. The winner gets a
discount . . . on more pizza at the restaurant!

There are many restaurants in Tehran, Iran, but one pizza shop is special. A robot brings you your
pizza. The robot is fast and works hard. People like the restaurant. They say it’s fun and different.

What about you? Do you like pizza? What’s your favorite kind?

UNIT 6
Megafamily

Dave: I’m Dave Cason.

Christi: And I’m Christi Cason . . . and together, we have 16 kids. Laura is 3; Morgan, 5; Walker, 6;
Trevor is 7; Rebekah, 8; Emma is 9; Harper is 10; Kaylee, 12; Gage, 14; Bailey is 15; Austin is 17;
Dalton, 19; Chad is 20; and the eldest is Jessica, who is 22. And then there’s one-year-old Nathaniel
and sleepy two-year-old Sawyer.

Narrator: Life in a big family is not easy. Every morning, mom Christi takes nine of their children to
four different schools. She looks after the younger brothers and sisters for the rest of the day. The
Cason family lives in a big house, but sometimes six children sleep in the same room. They also have
a big car. But it takes a long time for all of them to get in the car.

Dad, Dave, says it’s not easy to take care of so many children. The younger brothers and sisters fight
a lot. But he says they’re happy parents and they have a happy family.

UNIT 7
Late for Work

[music only]

UNIT 8
Ice Music

Narrator: Norway, meaning path to the north, is an alluring country, abundant with thousands of
islands. Each winter, it plays host to a surreal ice music festival.

Man: He made it to look like my real cello. So, that’s really it. You know, it’s very difficult to make a
precision instrument with ice. See, now I’m playing without a glove?

Woman: Yeah.

Man: I could only play for five minutes.

Narrator: Concerts take place in an intimate snow amphitheater where world-class musicians
collaborate, providing unexpectedly beautiful music. It’s an emotional experience in which the
© National Geographic Learning
ice music festival mirrors the landscape, as the sounds intermingle with pristine falling snow and
spaciousness of both the land and soundscape.

Man: The biggest challenge, by far, is building the instrument.

Narrator: Ice with superior-sounding qualities is harvested, then transported by utility sled,
snowmobile, and Range Rover to the charming ski village of Geilo.

Man: This is going to be used for the marimba.

Narrator: It is meticulously carved and tuned into ethereal-sounding instruments for the annual ice
music festival.

Woman: Wherever you look, there is only one color: the color of ice.

WARM-UP VIDEO SCRIPTS | T307

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 307 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 466 ────────

Warm-Up Video Scripts

UNIT 9
Moving Out

When do people move out of their parents’ home?

And when people move out, who do they live with?

The answer to these questions is different in countries around the world.

In the United States, many people move out of their parents’ home when they go to college, usually at
around age 19. Sometimes, they move far away to go to school.

In college, many students live in school housing called a “dorm.” They share their dorm with a
roommate. Other students live in an apartment with one or more roommates. They share the house
together.

Some roommates become good friends, but this doesn’t always happen.

After college, at around age 23, many young Americans move back to their parents’ home. Then they
move out again a few years later.

In other countries, things are different. For example, in many Latin American countries, people don’t
usually leave home at 19 or 20. They often go to college close by and live with their family during
this time. The same is true in some European countries. Many young adults live at home and go to
college. In fact, in the European Union and Latin America, many young adults don’t leave home until
age 26 or later, when they get married or buy a house.

But sometimes, young people in these places do leave home early. They move to a new city to go to
school. Others move to get a job. In a new city, these people need a place to live. When they don’t
have family there, some people live alone.

But today, many big cities around the world, like Rome and Mexico City, are very expensive. It’s hard
to live alone, so some people share a place with a roommate.

What about in your country? When do people usually leave home?

And when they leave home, do they live alone or with someone else?

UNIT 10
Small Spaces, Small Ideas

Narrator: Let’s imagine a room that everyone uses 24 hours a day. It’s a living room. It’s a playroom.
But better make it easy to clean up. And if we use this space up here, it can also be a bedroom. Smart.

Stackable stools, drawers on wheels, a bed up in the air. Small ideas can transform a small space into
generous space that works for everyone. It’s about maximizing space, being a little creative with how
you use it.

So, what if we get a little creative with a space like this? Does a living room really need a sofa? What if
we tried something different?

There. We’ve just created a whole wall for storage . . . and a cozy little nest for two. Now everyone can
do what they want at the same time, together.

And being together is a good thing, right? So, let’s try something completely different. Here are six
friends, and this is where they live, together. Why not? With some bunk beds, curtains for privacy, and
© National Geographic Learning
a big communal table to gather around, it can work.

To make the most of the space you’ve got, all you really need is an open mind and a few smart, small
ideas. It’s about finding and using hidden spaces and choosing furniture that does more than one
thing. And it works!

UNIT 11
Street Style in New York City

[music only]

T308 | WARM-UP VIDEO SCRIPTS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 308 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 467 ────────

Warm-Up Video Scripts

UNIT 12
Career Day

Teacher: All right. All right, class. Good morning. Today, as you know, is Career Day. I’m really excited
to see you guys’ speeches. So today the first student to go is . . . Austin.

Austin: I want to be a professional baseball player when I grow up.

Photography boy: I want to be a photographer when I grow up.

Surfer boy: When I grow up, I want to be . . .

Actress girl: An actress.

President girl: The president of the United States.

Surfer boy: A professional surfer.

Photography boy: Like you’ll take it up, you’ll look through the lens that’s right here.

Surfer boy: When the spray hits, it’s like chhh.

Actress girl: King of the hill and top of the heap.

Veterinarian girl: I want to be a veterinarian when I grow up. This is why I brought the box. It has a
sick bird inside that I found. It’s still alive . . . I think it’s still alive.

President girl: I want to give the youth a voice.

Surfer boy: Where I want to surf when I grow up is probably . . .

Photographer boy: Paris and Texas.

Surfer boy: Fiji, Hawaii, Tahiti.

Actress girl: New York, New York.

Austin: You’re famous and you feel better. You feel confident, kind of.

President girl: I want to change the world.

© National Geographic Learning

WARM-UP VIDEO SCRIPTS | T309

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 309 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 468 ────────

Global Voices Video Scripts

UNIT 1
Nice to Meet You

What’s your name?

Fabrizio: My name is Fabrizio Riccadeli. I’m from Florence, Italy.

Vera: My name’s Vera Lee. I’m from Beijing, China.

Lissette: I’m Lissette.

Crispin: My name is Crispin Zavala.

Herman: My name is Herman Van der Muellen.

Gina: Hi, my name is Gina Viviano.

Laura: Hi, my name is Laura Lopez.

Abel: Hi, my name is Abel.

Can you spell your last name?

Gina: V-I-V-I-A-N-O.

Laura: It’s L-O-P-E-Z.

Abel: My last name is Irribarren. It’s kind of difficult, but it’s I-R-R-I-B-A-R-R-E-N.

Do you have a nickname?

Lisette: Some people call me Lizzy.

Crispin: Chris.

Herman: The Hermanator.

Gina: Nickname? No.

What are your favorite types of music and sports?

Lisette: My favorite singer is Daddy Yankee. He’s a famous reggaeton singer.

Abel: I really like Salsa music, so my favorite singer is Héctor Lavoe probably or Rubén Blades. I love
soccer. I play soccer every week with my friends. My favorite soccer player is Ronaldinho Gaúcho.

UNIT 2
Andrés Ruzo

Map My Family

My name is Andrés Ruzo. I’m a scientist and a National Geographic Explorer.

I study the Earth, and travel to lots of different countries, like Australia, Iceland, Peru, the United
States, and many others.

I’m Peruvian, Nicaraguan, and American. My father is from Peru. My mother is from Nicaragua. And I
live in the United States. I have three passports.
© National Geographic Learning
My father’s family is from two cities in Peru: Lima and Cusco. Lima is the capital city of modern Peru.
It’s a big and busy city, nearly nine million people live there. Cusco is very different. It’s an old city. It is
high in the Andes Mountains, and it’s a city with a lot of history.

Peru is famous for its food. One of my favorite dishes is called ceviche. Ceviche is raw fish with lime
juice, onions, peppers, and herbs. It’s delicious!

Peru is also famous for the Amazon Rainforest. The Amazon River, the largest river in the world, starts
in Peru. In the rainforest, there’s another amazing river with very hot water. It’s called The Boiling River,
and I study this hot river.

T310 | GLOBAL VOICES VIDEO SCRIPTS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 310 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 469 ────────

Global Voices Video Scripts

My mother’s family is from a city in Nicaragua called Chinandega. About 150,000 people live in
Chinandega. This city is famous for farming and volcanoes. My mother’s family grows bananas and
coffee. The coffee farm is special to me because it’s on the Casita Volcano. The view from the top
is incredible. Next to the Casita Volcano is the San Cristóbal Volcano, which is the tallest volcano in
Nicaragua. It’s huge!

I live in Miami in the United States. Many people in Miami are from Spanish-speaking countries, and
they speak two languages. Sometimes, they speak more than two languages. For example, I can
communicate in five languages. Miami is famous for the Everglades National Park. The Everglades is
home to alligators and crocodiles, as well as panthers, manatees, and many kinds of birds. To move
around in the Everglades, you can’t use a car. You need a boat. It’s a fun place to visit.

So, where are you from? Is your town or city beautiful? What’s it famous for?

UNIT 3
What’s Your Favorite Gadget?

My favorite gadget is my camera.

My favorite gadget is my phone.

My favorite gadget is my laptop.

My favorite gadget is my coffee machine.

My favorite gadget is my memory stick.

My favorite gadget is my microwave.

Hi. I’m Ashley. I’m an engineer. My favorite gadget is my phone. I’m very busy in my job. I can
organize my day with my phone. It has a diary.

So, it’s Monday, nine o’clock . . . or Wednesday, twelve o’clock. I have a bad memory, but I have the
diary on my phone. No problem.

And this phone has a great camera. I can take fantastic photos and I can send them to my friends or
to the computer in my office. The photos from this phone are really, really good.

And I can talk to my phone. I can say “Send this photo to John,” or “Send an email to my office,” or
“Call home.”

My phone is really important in my job and that’s why it’s my favorite gadget.

Hi. I’m Clare. I’m a doctor. My favorite gadget is my coffee machine. It’s new. It’s really great.

Some coffee machines are expensive, but my new machine is a basic machine and it isn’t expensive.

It’s in my kitchen next to my microwave. I have a lot of gadgets in my kitchen. I can make a cup of
coffee in two minutes and it’s fantastic coffee.

I have ten different types of coffee. So I can make different types of coffee for my friends. It’s great.

What’s your favorite gadget?

UNIT 4
© National Geographic Learning
Voices from Chicago

What’s your name? Where are you from?

Mitsuko: My name is Mitsuko Hara.

Ilse: My name is Ilse Salgado, and I’m from Mexico.

Mitsuko: I’m from [the] south side of Japan, so it’s pretty far away from Tokyo.

Somaya: My name is Somaya Abughoush. I am from Palestine.

Jessica: My name is Jessica, and I’m from Brazil.

GLOBAL VOICES VIDEO SCRIPTS | T311

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 311 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 470 ────────

Global Voices Video Scripts

What are you doing?
Mitsuko: I’m learning English because I wanted to learn English always when I was in Japan. And I
had [an] opportunity to come here, so I came here to study English.
Ilse: I’m studying here. I start with English because English is not my first language. So I start with that
because there’s a required language to study nursing.
Somaya: I’m studying English now.
Jessica: I’m learning English to be able to communicate better, besides to improve my grammar,
listening, speaking and writing, reading skills.
Mitsuko: I’m studying science right now, but I don’t know my [exact] major yet.

What are your goals?
Jessica: My goal is to become a nurse here as I used to be in Brazil.
Ilse: My goal is to become a nurse, an excellent nurse.
Jessica: I like [to] take care of people. I like the hospitals here, and I think I like to do something
important for the people.
Somaya: My goal is to continue my education. If I can, I want to take a PhD in computer science.
Ilse: I like to interact with people. I like to see the people that are ill, and I want to make them smile.
I want [them] to feel comfortable when I’m there.

UNIT 5
What to Eat in Peru
Narrator: Many cities in Latin America have delicious food, but one city is famous for its food scene:
Lima, Peru. Locals and tourists agree: the food in Lima is amazing!

Do you have a favorite food to eat in Lima?
Marcel: Ceviche!
Miyri: My favorite dish is ceviche.
Genesis: Well, here, I’ve started to love ceviche. It’s delicious. I love it.
Gina: Food, well, I like ceviche. It’s a traditional dish from here, Peru. It’s a delicious dish, so I invite
you to eat it.
Narrator: Ceviche is probably Peru’s most famous dish. You make it with seafood, but you don’t cook
it. You put it in lemon or lime juice with chili peppers and other things. Usually people eat ceviche with
Peruvian potatoes and corn. It’s very healthy and many people eat it for lunch.

Do you like other dishes?
Abel: Well, my favorite dish is lomo saltado. It’s a Peruvian dish that’s made with potatoes, fried
potatoes, tomatoes, slices of meat, and rice. Yeah, it’s a typical Peruvian dish. It’s really delicious.
Favian: You should eat lomo saltado, because it’s the most delicious dish in Peru. It’s a mix between
meat, steak, with chips, French fries, rice, and onion. But the taste is the best.
© National Geographic Learning
Narrator: If you’re planning to go to Lima, try the ceviche, lomo saltado, or any of the other traditional
dishes. Whether you eat at a world-famous restaurant or a small local one, one thing is certain: you
will have an amazing meal!

UNIT 6
All in the Family

Describe your family

Miyri: I have four brothers, one sister, my parents, my beautiful dog. I got married two, three months
ago, so I have a husband now.

T312 | GLOBAL VOICES VIDEO SCRIPTS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 312 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 471 ────────

Global Voices Video Scripts

Abel: I have my dad; he’s called Abel also. My mom is Gina and my sister, Susana. Also, we live with
our grandmother.

Lizzy: I have one brother and one sister. My brother is 25 and my little sister is 12.

Dickie: My family . . . I have a brother, he [is] married. And my mother and my father live in Fujian,
but I live in Shenzhen.

Max: I’m already married and I have a two-year-old son. He’s so funny and so cute and I love my wife
and my son. Yeah! They are my whole world.

What is something interesting about your family?

Marcel: I live in Brazil with my mom and a lot of my family in the same building. It’s like houses
together. My uncle, my grandma, so, it’s complicated.

Ricardo: Well, my family came from, are immigrants from, China. Well, indeed, my grandparents
came from China. The culture of my family is like a mix of Peruvian culture and Chinese culture.

Abel: My dad is a cinematographer, so he makes movies and TV commercials. He’s in the movie industry.

David: Now I’m from Israel. My brother and my sister, all of my family is from Israel. I’m [Israeli], but
my parents [are] from Morocco.

UNIT 7
My Time

What do you do on the weekend?

Nigar: I like listening [to] music, and also, I have two kids. I have a great time to spend with my kids in
Chicago: We are walking, we are going to the restaurants, to the museums. It’s cool.

Jasmine: I usually go out with my friends for a movie and go to downtown. I like sightseeing.

Meki: On the weekend, with my family, we always go out, watch movies, and play some sports.

Isabel: Every weekend. I go swimming.

Lingo: Normally, like, if you’re just talking about weekends, I like to sleep until I want to get up. But if I
got a week vacation, I, like, go to the beach. Yeah, and I just lay there, take some drinks, do nothing.
Think nothing. Just have such an empty time to empty myself. That would be perfect!

What is your typical day like?

Isabel: I usually wake up and go to work, and [on] the way I see the sea, and it’s amazing. And I’m a
pediatrician, and so I work with kids. It’s a fun day. And then, I come home, I usually eat lunch at work,
and I come home, watch some TV, go work out, and then go [to] sleep.

Mireille: I wake up, have breakfast, and then it’s time to go to work. I work as a manager for daycares.
And then after work, I mostly go to the gym, and then it’s time for dinner and hang with some friends.

UNIT 8
What’s Your Favorite Holiday?
© National Geographic Learning
Alex: There are many different holidays around the world, and each culture celebrates these holidays
in different ways. Today, I’ve brought two guests with me to talk about holidays in their countries, and
I’m very excited to learn about those holidays.

Lara: Hello, everyone, my name is Lara and I come from Spain, and I’ve been living in Korea for four
years.

JY: My name is JY and I live in South Korea, and I’m a teacher. I want to talk about the holiday
called gujeong or Seollal, which is a New Year’s celebration. But it’s a very different kind of New
Year celebration because the date changes every year. So, Korea follows a lunar calendar, so this is
celebrated January 1 of the lunar calendar. So it changes. For example, this year we celebrate it on
January 25, but next year, we are celebrating it on February 12.

GLOBAL VOICES VIDEO SCRIPTS | T313

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 313 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 472 ────────

Global Voices Video Scripts

Alex: Really? So, it’s different from the January 1 New Year’s.

JY: And Koreans nowadays celebrate the January 1 holiday as well, but traditionally family gatherings
happen on this lunar New Year’s holiday.

Alex: So, for the Korean New Year, how do you celebrate?

JY: Food is very important, so all the family gathers, and the relatives, probably at the grandmother’s
house, and we cook a big pot of rice cake soup, which is called tteokguk in Korean. It’s made with
beef broth and some chunks of raw beef and sliced rice cakes and we boil it and we eat it.

Alex: Wow, that sounds really good.

Lara: In Spain, we have something called the Semana Santa, which is translated as the Holy Week.
And we celebrate it around the Easter time. So we don’t have Easter celebration, but we do have the
Holy Week, the Semana Santa, celebration.

Alex: So, is that in the springtime?

Lara: It’s around March or April, and the date also varies every year. My family gathers all together
and usually in Spain for every holiday we gather all together in, as well, the grandma’s house or one
big house of the family and we just eat together.

Alex: Oh, what kind of food do you have?

Lara: We have something called torrijas.

Alex: Torrijas?

Lara: Torrijas are very, very delicious and, basically, they are very similar to French toast. We let the
bread dry for a little bit, it’s like a French baguette, we let it dry for some days then we cut it in slices.
We dip it in egg and in sugar and in cinnamon and then we fry it. I think my favorite part would be all
the parades that there are on the street. There’s a lot of parades with people dressed up in costumes,
in very funny costumes for some people.

Alex: I hope you all learned something interesting about our cultures and the holidays that we celebrate
with our families. And I hope that you also have some holidays that you get to celebrate with your friends
or family, and one day I would like to learn about those as well. So, until next time, goodbye.

UNIT 9
Best Friends and “Frenemies”

Tell me about your best friend.

Mike is my best friend. We’re old friends. We like the same things, so we get along great. He and I
both like sports and dancing, but he’s a much better dancer than I am.

Why do you like him?

I like Mike because we can talk about anything. We’re really close friends. We talk about sports. We
talk about work. We talk about women. Everything. If I ever have a problem, he is there for me. And he
gives really good advice.

What do you usually do with your friends?

When I hang out with my friends, usually we just talk. Sometimes, when the weather is nice, we go
© National Geographic Learning
outside and throw the football or play basketball together. Most of my friends are very active, so we
like spending time outside.

Do you sometimes fight with your friends?

No way. I hardly ever fight with my friends. All my friends are really nice. If we have a disagreement,
we listen to each other and try to understand why the other person is upset.

Do you have any “frenemies”? Why are you friends with these people?

Do I have “frenemies”? Oh, I am not sure. I think I do. Yes, I do. Some of my friends I play basketball
with are my “frenemies.” We’re friends because we always play basketball together. But I don’t want

T314 | GLOBAL VOICES VIDEO SCRIPTS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 314 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 473 ────────

Global Voices Video Scripts

to hang out with them and do other things after basketball is over. I don’t think we’d get along well
together. We have different personalities.

How often do you talk to your friends?

I always talk to my friends. I send them messages quite often throughout the day. When I’m bored, I
call them. When they’re bored, they call me. We sometimes talk for over an hour on the phone. And,
these days, we do video calls. It’s much more fun to talk when you can see your friends’ faces.

Is it easy for you to make friends?

I think it’s easy to make friends, but I think making good friends is very difficult. Finding a good friend
is a lot of work. It’s easy for me to meet new people at work, at parties, or even at a cafe. But it takes a
lot of time to build a good friendship. That is why I really appreciate the close friends that I do have.

UNIT 10
A Green Home

Hi, I’m T.H. Culhane. I’m a National Geographic Explorer and a professor of Global Sustainability at the
University of South Florida. In my job, I study our environment and I teach people how to care for it.
Every day, in our homes, we do things that aren’t good for our environment, but you can change that and
I’ll explain how by showing you some things that my wife and I changed. But first, let’s visit our house.
Welcome to our off-grid tiny home. Let’s go on a tour. Let me show you how easy it is to be green, and
comfortable, in every room.
This is our kitchen. As you can see, there’s a dishwasher, a stove, a refrigerator, and there’s even a
microwave oven. We also have a gas stove.
In the kitchen, there’s also a washing machine for our clothes.
In many homes, these things use a lot of energy, but in this home, we use energy-efficient appliances.
Here’s our living room. As you can see, there’s a couch and a big screen TV.
In our home, we often use recycled or used furniture.
We have two bedrooms. We use one as our home office or study room where we keep our computers.
The master bedroom of course is where we and the baby sleep. All of our rooms have nice LED
lighting. They use very little energy.
With solar power and LED lights, we use 75% less energy than most other homes.
We’ve got a home garden right outside and a community school garden a short walk away. And we
grow a lot of our own food.
In our shed outside, we have an efficient electric dryer for rainy days, but we dry our clothes outside
most of the time in direct sunshine to save even more energy.
Our home isn’t very different from a normal house. We just have much less space. It’s what we call a
tiny home, and we recycle many things, and we pay careful attention to how much energy we’re using.

Tips for a Green Home

Now, there are easy ways to make your home greener today. For example, when you leave a room,
turn off the lights.
© National Geographic Learning
Also, turn off and unplug your TV and microwave when you’re not using them. This saves a lot of
energy. And try to replace all of your inefficient lights with LEDs.
My family recycles water from the bathroom, using it in the lawn and garden. Maybe you can’t do this,
but you can turn off the water when you brush your teeth and take a shorter shower.
Another tip for your home: Start a garden or share one with others in your neighborhood or school.
Plants are great for our environment, and look: no plastic on this avocado.
And finally, don’t buy everything new. Visit secondhand shops for lamps, or tables, or rugs. And when
you’re done with something, tell family and friends. Maybe they can use your old desk or chair or
something else.

GLOBAL VOICES VIDEO SCRIPTS | T315

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 315 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 474 ────────

Global Voices Video Scripts

When we each do a little bit of good where we live each day, it adds up to a whole lot of wonderful in
the world over the years. We hope you will join us in making our home, planet Earth, better and better,
starting with your home.

UNIT 11
The Tweed Run
Narrator: Welcome to The Tweed Run, the UK’s most stylish annual cycling event.
Every year in May, people come together to dress up in traditional British clothing and explore the city
of London on vintage bikes.
Woman: So this is the Tweed Run, which is a cycle ride around London which we take and do every
year, which brings 800 people altogether dressed in their finest tweed with their beautiful bikes. And
we stop for tea along the way and go for a lovely lunch and it all closes up with a fantastic prize-giving
ceremony.
Narrator: Tweed is a popular fabric from the early 20th century. It’s a rough and thick material and
it isn’t cheap. People usually use tweed to make fitted, dressy clothing, like suits, jackets, hats, and
skirts. So, for many people, The Tweed Run is a great excuse to leave their casual clothes at home
and have fun with fashion.
Man: It’s just great seeing people really dressed up. You know, the world spends its life in gray jersey
and one day a year the world’s in, you know, brightly colored tweeds. And it really makes a great big
difference.
Narrator: But The Tweed Run isn’t just about clothes. It’s also a great way to explore the city, meet
new people, and, most importantly, have fun.
Man: It’s about taking part in a community spirit and that’s really what it’s about. And enjoying the
atmosphere of London.

UNIT 12
One Man, Two Jobs
My name is Corey Arnold. I’m a commercial fisherman in Alaska and I’m a National Geographic
photographer.

What do you do?
I’m a professional photographer. I take photographs for magazines. Sometimes my photos are also in
galleries. During the summer, I’m also the captain of a commercial fishing boat in Alaska.
As a photographer, I travel around the world showing how humans interact with nature. I also
photograph my friends and coworkers in Alaska during the fishing season.

Who do you work for?
I’m a freelance photographer. I don’t work for just one person or organization. I work for many
organizations. I often work for National Geographic Magazine. I also create my own projects and sell
my photographs in galleries around the world.

What’s your job like?
© National Geographic Learning
As a photographer, I travel a lot. I’m away from home for six months or more. I love to meet new
people and experience new places.
I take most of my photographs in the Arctic. I especially love to photograph in Norway, Siberia, and
Alaska.
As a commercial fisherman, I work on the Bering Sea in Alaska. Commercial fishing in Alaska is
extremely hard work. It can be very dangerous because the sea is rough. Also, we work long hours,
sometimes with very little sleep.
Traveling in the Arctic can be very hard. It’s very cold in the winter, and there is not a lot of sunlight
during the day, so taking photographs is difficult. But the light is very beautiful in the Arctic.

T316 | GLOBAL VOICES VIDEO SCRIPTS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 316 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 475 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

B
UNIT 1, LESSON A
1. Her name is Mrs. Lee.
1. Vocabulary
2. Your first name is Linda.
A
3. His last name is Diaz.
1. teacher
4. My email address is jake28@easypost.com.
2. David
5. It’s my nickname.
3. Smith
C
4. Mr.
1. a
B
2. a
1. 7
3. b
2. 4
4. a
3. 0
5. b
4. 8
6. b
5. 2
7. b
6. 1
8. a
C
9. b
1. first
10. a
2. last

3. email
UNIT 1, LESSON B
4. phone number

5. nickname
1. Vocabulary and Grammar
A
6. classmate
1. a
2. Conversation
2. e
A
3. c
1. I’m, It’s
4. d
2. He’s
5. b
3. She’s
6. g
4. What’s, It’s
7. f
B
B
1. 4, 1, 2, 3
1. No, it isn’t. It’s swimming.
2. 2, 4, 1, 3, 5
2. Yes, they are.
3. 3, 1, 4, 2
3. No, it isn’t. It’s dance music.
C
4. Yes, it is.
Answers will vary.
© National Geographic Learning
5. No, it isn’t. It’s Spider-Man: Far From Home.

6. No, it isn’t. It’s basketball.
3. Grammar
C
A
Answers will vary.
1. is

2. is
2. Reading and Writing
B
3. am
1. No, it isn’t.
4. are

WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS | T317

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 317 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 476 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

6. Portuguese
2. Yes, they are.

C
3. Yes, it is.

1. a
4. No, it isn’t.

2. c
5. Answers will vary.

3. d
C

4. b
Robert: Bob or Rob

Michael: Mike
2. Conversation
A
Christopher: Chris

A: Hi, I’m Stefan.
Susan: Sue

B: Hi, Stefan. Where are you from
Elizabeth: Liz, Lizzy, Beth, Bess, or Betty

A: I’m from Santiago, Chile
Catherine: Cathy, Kate

B: Is Santiago the capital of Chile
D

A: Yes, it is
1. is

B
2. calls

1. from
3. He’s

2. I’m
4. His

3. Spain
5. address

4. isn’t
6. music

2. Answers will vary.
E

C
Answers will vary.

1. c
F

2. e
Answers will vary.

3. d

4. a
UNIT 2, LESSON A
5. b
1. Vocabulary
A
3. Grammar
A
1. Turkey

1. c
2. Brazil

2. b
3. Chinese

3. a
4. Peru

4. c
5. Korean

B
6. Australian

1. in
7. Canada
© National Geographic Learning
2. from
8. Jamaican

3. from
B

4. at
1. British

5. in
2. Japanese

C
3. Mexican

1. Who
4. Spanish

2. Where’s
5. American

T318 | WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 318 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 477 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

3. at
UNIT 3, LESSON A
4. Who’s
1. Vocabulary
5. in
A
D
1. f
1. f
2. g
2. d
3. b
3. b
4. a
4. c
5. e
5. a
6. d
6. e
7. h

8. c
UNIT 2, LESSON B
B

1. watch
1. Vocabulary and Grammar
A
2. wallet
Answers will vary.
3. sunglasses
B
4. gift card
Answers will vary.
5. laptop
C
C
1. is
Answers will vary.
2. isn’t
2. Conversation
3. aren’t
A
4. are
1. No problem.
5. isn’t
2. Is this your wallet?
D
3. Thanks for the gift.
Answers will vary.
4. Are these your headphones?

5. Thanks so much.
2. Reading and Writing
A
B
1. New York City
2, 1, 4, 3, 6, 5
2. Brasília
C
3. Oxford
1. F
4. Rome
2. I
5. Seoul
3. F
B
4. F
Answers will vary.
© National Geographic Learning5. I
C
6. I
capatal capital, beutiful beautiful, croded
D
crowded, friendley friendly, rilaxing relaxing,
Answers will vary.
intresting interesting, sumer summer

D

Answers will vary.

WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS | T319

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 319 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 478 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

4. Are those
3. Grammar
A
5. Is this
1. notebooks
6. Is this
2. countries
7. Are those
3. cameras
C
4. cell phones
1. That’s an expensive gift
5. dishes
2. This is a good cell phone
6. dictionaries
3. These are excellent headphones / These
headphones are excellent
7. watches
4. This is terrible music / This music is terrible
8. keys
5. Those movie tickets are cheap / Those are
9. bus passes
cheap movie tickets
10. women
D
11. people
Answers will vary.
12. wives
2. Reading and Writing
B
A
1. knives
1. laptop
2. tomatoes
2. headphones
3. men
3. watch
4. children
4. cell phone
5. photos
5. backpack
6. classes
B
C
1. F, The LC-009 is easy to use.
cities, umbrellas, people, friends, women,
2. F, The BT-333s are wireless.
pictures
3. F, The WX-240 is cheap.
D
4. T
Answers will vary.
5. F, Hikemate 2 is comfortable.

C
UNIT 3, LESSON B
1. headphones
1. Vocabulary and Grammar
2. perfect
A
3. easy
1. unimportant
4. expensive
2. messy
5. excellent
3. hard
D
© National Geographic Learning
4. cheap
mesy messy, theze these, this these, cheep
5. bad
cheap, kip keep, laptp laptop, this these,
expensve expensive
B
E
1. Is this
Answers will vary.
2. Are these

3. Is that

T320 | WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 320 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 479 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

C
UNIT 4, LESSON A
Answers will vary.
1. Vocabulary
A
3. Grammar
A
1. shopping
1. Elena is studying English.
2. watching
2. Carlos isn’t writing emails.
3. listening
3. They’re listening to music.
4. talking
4. Mindy is talking on the phone.
5. texting
5. We aren’t eating French food. / We’re not
6. exercising
eating French food.
7. drinking
6. Rio isn’t watching TV.
8. eating
7. I’m not doing homework.
9. studying
8. Mohammad is texting Alison.
10. going
B
B
1. Are you eating dinner?
1. X
2. Is John playing tennis?
2. for
3. Is she listening to hip-hop?
3. X
4. Are Mr. and Mrs. Sosa exercising?
4. X
5. Are you watching a movie?
5. X
6. Are we studying English?
6. on
C
7. to
1. He’s answering emails.
8. to
2. Yes, he is.
C
3. She’s talking to new students.
1. listening
4. They’re meeting with Mr. Pak.
2. eating
5. No, he’s not. / No, he isn’t.
3. watching
6. Ahmed is answering the phones.
4. talking

5. drinking
UNIT 4, LESSON B
6. going
1. Vocabulary and Grammar
7. exercising
A
8. studying
1. nursing
2. Conversation
2. math
A
© National Geographic Learning
3. law
8, 3, 5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 7
4. art
B
5. business
A: Hi. How are you doing
6. science
B: Pretty good. How about you
B
A: I’m fine. What are you doing
1. Why are you studying English
B: I’m exercising at the park
2. He’s preparing for the law school entrance
A: How is your sister
exam
B: So-so. She’s studying for an English test
WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS | T321

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 321 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 480 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

5. steak
3. We’re studying for the science test

6. salad
4. Where are you living these days

B
5. I’m working on a project for art class

1. e
6. She’s planning to study business

2. c
7. They’re majoring in engineering

3. a
8. Am I taking an art class

4. d
C

5. f
1. ’m visiting / am visiting (these days)

6. b
2. ’s starting / is starting (these days)

C
3. ’re watching / are watching (right now)

Answers will vary.
4. ’s talking / is talking (right now)

5. ’m studying / am studying (these days)
2. Conversation
6. ’m enjoying / am enjoying (these days)
A

7. ’m texting / am texting (right now)
1. 1, 5, 4, 2, 3

8. ’re learning / are learning (these days)
2. 3, 4, 2, 1

3. 5, 2, 3, 1, 4
2. Reading and Writing
B
B

1. hungry
Hiroko, Japanese, information technology,
English, tennis
2. kind
Felix, German, nursing, English, math, and
3. Indian
engineering, music
Gisele, Brazilian, art, two art classes, yoga
4. love
C
5. restaurant
1. drinking
C
2. eating
Answers will vary.
3. listening
3. Grammar
4. watching
A
5. studying
1. have
6. going
2. studies
7. taking
3. do
8. shopping
4. go
D
5. drinks
Answers will vary.
6. exercises

7. teaches
© National Geographic Learning
UNIT 5, LESSON A
8. know
1. Vocabulary
B
A
1. I don’t eat breakfast every day.
1. pasta
2. Carmen doesn’t study Japanese.
2. sandwich
3. We don’t make pasta every Saturday night.
3. rice and beans
4. Young-Mi doesn’t drink coffee.
4. soup
5. My friends don’t order pizza on Fridays.

T322 | WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 322 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 481 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

C
6. I don’t like vegetable soup.

1. eat
7. Johan doesn’t speak Mandarin well.

2. don’t skip
8. My aunt doesn’t work in an office.

3. don’t drink
C

4. exercise
Answers will vary.

5. play

6. don’t eat
UNIT 5, LESSON B
7. love
1. Vocabulary and Grammar
8. sleep
A

9. take
1. bad for you

10. is
2. snack

11. doesn’t take
3. meal

12. doesn’t exercise
4. energy

13. skips
5. high in

14. doesn’t eat
6. tastes good

15. eats
7. low in

16. studies
B

17. sleeps
1. Do you like vegetables? Yes, I do.

D
2. Does your mother cook every day? No, she
doesn’t.
Answers will vary.
3. Do your friends eat healthy meals? Yes, they
do.
UNIT 6, LESSON A
4. Does cheese taste good? Yes, it does.
1. Vocabulary
5. Do you eat foods high in sugar? No, I don’t.
A
6. Does Andrea eat unhealthy snacks? No, she
doesn’t.
Male: brother, father, grandfather, uncle, son

C
Female: aunt, daughter, grandmother, mother,
sister
Answers will vary.
Male or female: parent, grandparent, cousin
2. Reading and Writing
B
A
1. d
2, 1, 3
2. a
B
3. g
Ali Aslan, Turkey, fried chicken, cookies, cake,
spinach, and beans
4. h
© National Geographic Learning
They’re delicious. They taste good.
5. b

Kenji Ono, Japan, vegetable soup, rice, and fish
6. e

He needs to lose weight. He’s on a diet.
7. c

Marta Diaz, Mexico, salads, smoothies
8. f

She wants to be healthy. They taste good. They’re
C
good for her.
Answers will vary.

WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS | T323

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 323 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 482 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

6. I’m his cousin.
D

7. This is their car.
1. ninety-three

2. seventy-seven

3. eighty
UNIT 6, LESSON B
4. forty-six
1. Vocabulary and Grammar
5. twenty-five
A

6. thirty-two
1. married

7. sixty-four
2. single

8. eighteen
3. husband
4. boyfriend
9. fifty-eight
5. seeing someone
10. twelve
6. girlfriend
2. Conversation
B
A
1. husband / boyfriend
1. Who is this person, That’s my younger sister
2. seeing someone
2. How old is your sister, She’s 15 years old
3. married
3. Are these your brothers, Yes, they’re my
brothers
4. boyfriend / girlfriend / husband
4. Are they the same age, No, my brother Kevin is
5. single / married
older / No, Kevin is my older brother
6. boyfriend / girlfriend / husband
B
C
Answers will vary.
1. ’ve got
3. Grammar
2. ’s got
A
3. ’s got
1. the Parks’
4. ’ve got
2. Charles’s
5. ’ve got
3. The Parks’
6. ’s got
4. Shelly’s
D
5. Charles’s
1. How old are you
6. Shelly’s
2. am 23 years old
B
3. Are you single
1. James’s, Kayla’s
4. No, I’ve got a wife
2. Jeff’s, Sarah’s / James’s
5. Do you have any children
3. Carol’s / Jeff’s, Sarah’s / James’s
6. I have two children
4. Carol’s, Annie’s, Kayla’s
© National Geographic Learning
2. Reading and Writing
C
A
1. Pablo is her brother.
Answers will vary.
2. His house is small.
B
3. Her name is Akiko.
1. sister
4. His parents are doctors.
2. mother
5. Their names are Raul and Emilio.
3. son

T324 | WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 324 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 483 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

2. Conversation
4. father
A
5. brother
Possible answers:
6. daughter
1. Let’s have dinner at the Pizza Palace.
C
2. Let’s watch that new horror movie.
1. Coppola’s
3. Let’s go swimming.
2. daughter’s
4. We could eat at the Colombian restaurant.
3. mother’s
5. How about a bike ride?
4. aunt’s
B
5. brother’s
Possible answers:
6. son’s
1. I don’t really like classical music.
7. cousin’s
2. I don’t really like basketball. / I don’t really want
8. uncle’s
to watch TV.
D
3. I don’t really like to play tennis.
Answers will vary.
4. I don’t really like Jennifer Lawrence. / I don’t
really want to go to the movies.
UNIT 7, LESSON A
5. I don’t really like to eat at Tasca Restaurant. / I
don’t really like Tasca Restaurant.
1. Vocabulary
6. I don’t really like to shop. / I don’t really like to go
A
shopping. / I don’t really want to go shopping.
1. 2:45
C
2. 1:30
Answers will vary.
3. 5:15
D
4. 10:15
Answers will vary.
5. 8:00
3. Grammar
6. 3:45
A
7. 5:00
1. on, at, in
8. 9:30
2. in
B
3. at, in
1. b
4. On, at
2. f
5. on
3. a
6. at, on
4. e
B
5. d
Possible answers:
6. c
1. He works in the afternoon on Mondays and
© National Geographic Learning
7. h
Fridays.
8. g
2. She works in the morning on Mondays and the
afternoon on Wednesdays.
C
3. She works in the afternoon on Tuesdays.
morning, afternoon, evening, night
4. She works in the morning and afternoon on
D
Saturdays.
Answers will vary.

WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS | T325

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 325 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 484 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

B
5. He works in the evening on Mondays,
Wednesdays, Fridays, and Saturdays.
1. F, Evans relaxes on Sundays.
6. He works in the afternoon on Thursdays.
2. F, He spends time with his parents on Sundays.
7. He works in the morning on Tuesdays,
3. T
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays.
4. F, He lives with his dog, Racket.
C
C
1. from, to
1. in
2. in
2. at
3. at
3. On
4. from, to
4. at
5. on
5. on
6. at
6. on
7. in
7. In
8. on
8. In
D
9. on
1. When is your favorite show on TV?
D
2. When is your piano lesson?
Answers will vary.
3. When is the test?

4. When is the party?
UNIT 8, LESSON A
5. When is Jim’s dance class?
1. Vocabulary
A
UNIT 7, LESSON B
1. May
1. Vocabulary and Grammar
2. March
A
3. June
go: shopping, swimming; go to: school; go for: a
walk, a bike ride; go out with: friends, classmates
4. July
B
5. August
Answers will vary.
6. November
C
7. February
1. What do you do on weekends?
8. April
2. Where do you live?
9. September
3. Who do you go dancing with?
10. January
4. When do you go to the gym?
11. October
5. Where do you go to school?
12. December
© National Geographic Learning
2. Reading and Writing
B
A
1. winter
1. Where do you live?
2. summer
2. Who do you live with?
3. fall
3. What do you do in your free time?
4. spring
4. What do you do in the evenings?
C
5. What do you do on Saturdays?
1. May tenth
6. When do you relax?
2. February sixteenth

T326 | WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 326 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 485 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

4. in
3. August twenty-third

5. to
4. November ninth

6. about / to / with
5. October first

C
6. April fifth

1. My birthday is on July tenth.
7. July fourth

2. Our vacation is in (the) summer.
8. June twenty-seventh

3. Our party is on New Year’s Day.
9. March tenth

4. Labor Day is in September.
D

5. Valentine’s Day is in (the) winter.
Answers will vary.

6. International Women’s Day is on March
2. Conversation
eighth. / International Women’s Day is on
A
March 8.
3, 6, 4, 1, 7, 2, 5

B
UNIT 8, LESSON B
1. Is today a holiday?
1. Vocabulary and Grammar
2. It’s the last Friday in June.
A
3. What do people do on this day?
1. attend
4. I’m not sure when it is.
2. place
5. St. Patrick’s Day is on March 17.
3. every
C
4. event
1. c
5. compete
2. a
6. traditional
3. b
7. celebrate
D
B
Answers will vary.
1. c
3. Grammar
2. a
A
3. d
1. Who do you play chess with
4. b
2. Where does Niko come from
C
3. What English class are you in
1. When
4. Which school do you go to
2. How long
5. Who is this letter for
3. When
6. Who do you spend time with
4. How long
7. What are you looking for
5. How long
© National Geographic Learning
8. What street do you live on
D
9. Who are they with
1. for
10. What time is the movie at
2. for
B
3. from, to
1. at
4. on
2. with
5. in
3. on
6. For

WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS | T327

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 327 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 486 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

2. Reading and Writing
C
A
Answers will vary.
1. c
2. Conversation
2. a
A
3. b
1. I’m sorry about that.
B
2. Don’t worry about it.
1. Karin Schmidt, Germany, Christmas, She loves
3. I’m really sorry.
the Christmas tree.
4. That’s OK.
2. Park Kyoung-Mi, Korea, Chuseok, She sees all
5. That’s all right.
of her cousins.
B
3. Paulo Amaral, Brazil, Carnival, He loves the
traditional clothes and music.
Making an apology: I’m sorry about that. I’m
really sorry.
C
Responding to an apology: Don’t worry about it.
1. holliday holiday
That’s all right. That’s OK.
2. palce place
C
3. evry every
6, 1, 3, 2, 5, 4
4. preform perform
D
5. atend attend
Answers will vary.
6. parad parade
3. Grammar
7. traditional traditional
A
8. evint event
1. Anya never gets up early.
D
2. Matt often drinks coffee.
Answers will vary.
3. Matt and Tim always eat breakfast.
4. Anya is usually a good student. / Usually Anya
UNIT 9, LESSON A
is a good student.
5. Tim and Anya never drink coffee.
1. Vocabulary
A
6. Sometimes Anya and Matt are late for class. /
Anya and Matt are late for class sometimes.
1. make, do
7. Jai never eats breakfast.
2. make
8. Jai is hardly ever late for class.
3. do
9. Tim often gets up early.
4. make
B
5. makes
Answers will vary.
6. do
C
7. makes
Answers will vary.
8. does
© National Geographic Learning
B
UNIT 9, LESSON B
1. do
1. Vocabulary and Grammar
2. makes
A
3. makes
1. get along
4. do
2. keep in touch
5. ’m doing / am doing
3. hang out
6. ’m doing / am doing

T328 | WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 328 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 487 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

6. friendship
4. best friends
5. meet
7. old friends
6. make friends
E
7. friendship
Answers will vary.
B
F
1. Where
Answers will vary.
2. Where
3. When
UNIT 10, LESSON A
4. What
1. Vocabulary
5. Who
A
6. Where
1. d
7. How long
2. g
8. When
3. b
C
4. h
1. Where do you go after class
5. i
2. What do you eat for lunch
6. e
3. What do you do for fun
7. c
4. Where do you go to school
8. f
5. How long is your English class
9. a
6. Who is your teacher
B
Responses will vary.
1. closet
2. Reading and Writing
2. kitchen
A
3. apartment
Answers will vary.
4. chair
C
5. table
1. T
6. bathtub
2. F. Esteban doesn’t keep in touch with his
C
friends at home all the time.
Answers will vary.
3. F. Gloria gets along well with people.
2. Conversation
4. T
A
5. T
1. apartment
6. F. Eduardo gets along with his coworkers.
2. the rent is
7. F. Eduardo’s coworkers don’t have time to hang
3. Are you serious
out after work.
© National Geographic Learning
4. You’re kidding
D

5. It’s a
1. roommate

6. There’s
2. best

7. There’s no
3. keep in touch

B
4. hang out

Answers will vary.
5. make friends

WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS | T329

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 329 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 488 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

3. He’s too excited to sit down.
3. Grammar
A
4. She got a very good grade on the test.
1. Is there; No, there isn’t.
5. C
2. Is there; Yes, there is.
6. The baby is very young.
3. Is there; Yes, there is.
7. C
4. Is there; No, there isn’t.
8. They’re too young.
5. Is there; Yes, there is.
9. I’m too busy to go.
6. Is there; No there isn’t.
2. Reading and Writing
B
A
Answers will vary.
1. Fabio Pessoa
C
2. Emily Lawson
Responses will vary.
3. Ichiyo Mori
1. How many rooms are in your apartment?
C
2. How many people are there in your family?
1. blue
3. How many pages are in this book?
2. dark blue
4. How many students are in your class?
3. decorators
5. How many windows are there in your
D
bedroom?
Rooms: living room, dining area, bedroom,
6. How many units are in this book?
kitchen
7. How many shirts are in your closet?
Colors: yellow, blue, red, red, gray, white, white,
yellow
8. How many chairs are in your kitchen?
E

Answers will vary.
UNIT 10, LESSON B

1. Vocabulary and Grammar
UNIT 11, LESSON A
A

1. Vocabulary
1. white
A
2. green
1. skirt
3. blue
2. dress
4. brown
3. heels
5. gray
4. jacket
6. pink
5. tie
7. orange
6. jeans
8. gray
7. blouse
© National Geographic Learning
9. orange
8. sandals
10. pink
9. uniform
11. yellow
10. suit
B
11. T-shirt
1. I’m too tired to go out.
12. socks
2. C

T330 | WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 330 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 489 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

13. pants
UNIT 11, LESSON B
14. hat
1. Vocabulary and Grammar
15. sneakers
A
B
1. style
For your neck: scarf, tie
2. casual
For your feet: boots, heels, sandals, sneakers,
3. baggy
socks
4. loose
For your legs: jeans, pants, shorts, skirt
5. tight
For your hands: gloves
6. fitted
C
7. dressy
Answers will vary.
8. dress up
2. Conversation
9. stylish
A
B
Answers will vary.
1. N
B
2. C
Answers will vary.
3. C
3. Grammar
4. N
A
5. N
1. Do you want to buy these jeans
6. C
2. He has a new suit
7. N
3. We have to buy gloves
8. C
4. He doesn’t want new sneakers
C
5. Do we have to dress up for the party
1. —
6. He wants to buy a scarf for his mother
2. —
7. She has to wear winter boots outside
3. a
B
4. some / —
1. have to
5. —
2. want to
6. a
3. has
7. a
4. want
8. some / —
5. have
9. an
6. want to
2. Reading and Writing
7. doesn’t want
A
© National Geographic Learning
8. don’t have to
1. b
9. has to
2. e
10. wants
3. c
11. doesn’t want to
4. d
C
5. a
Answers will vary.

WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS | T331

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 331 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 490 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

B
2. Conversation
A
1. —
7, 3, 5, 1, 6, 9, 2, 4, 8
2. a
B
3. a
Possible answers:
4. —
1. What’s your name
5. a
2. do you work
6. —
3. I work at
7. —
4. do you do
8. an
5. Do you like your job
9. a
6. What are
10. an
C
C
Answers will vary.
Answers will vary.
3. Grammar
D
A
Answers will vary.
1. What’s she like?

2. What’s that like?
UNIT 12, LESSON A
3. What’s he like?
1. Vocabulary
4. What’s she like?
A
5. What’s that like?
1. doctor
6. What are they like?
2. lawyer
B
3. waiter
1. What’s that like?
4. manager
2. What’s she like?
5. receptionist
3. What are they like?
6. dentist
4. What’s she like?
B
5. What’s that like?
1. receptionist
6. What’s that like?
2. hotel desk clerk
3. dentist
UNIT 12, LESSON B
4. police officer
1. Vocabulary and Grammar
5. server
A
6. nurse
1. d
7. software developer
2. f
© National Geographic Learning
8. flight attendant
3. e
9. lawyer
4. b
10. tour guide
5. a
11. chef
6. c
12. engineer
B
C
Answers will vary.
Answers will vary.

T332 | WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 332 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 491 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

C
B

Answers will vary.
Yes: sing, play tennis, play the piano, speak
English, play soccer
D
A little: speak French, play the violin
1. What
No: Swim
2. Can, you
C
3. can
1. live
4. little
2. I’m
5. Can, you
3. speak
6. can
4. can
7. well
5. love
8. can’t
6. play
9. well
7. can’t
10. Can
8. Do
11. can, cry
9. work
2. Reading and Writing
10. practice
A
D
Can you speak Spanish?, Can you play any
instruments?, Can you swim?
Answers will vary.

© National Geographic Learning

WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS | T333

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 333 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 492 ────────

Credits

Illustration: All illustrations are owned by © Cengage.

T223 (tl) Winston Link/Shutterstock.com, (tr) Mahatthaniyasopon/Shutterstock.com, (tr) Mates/
Shutterstock.com, (cl) Igor Shikov/Shutterstock.com, (cl) Miti74/Shutterstock.com, (cr) Ruslan
Ivantsov/Shutterstock.com, (cr) aodaodaod/iStock/Getty Images, (bl) ecco/Shutterstock.com,
(bl) Kosuke Wakabayashi, (br) rangizzz/Shutterstock.com, (br) © John Foxx Images/Imagestate;
T225 (tl) Belikova Oksana/Shutterstock.com, (tr) Ostill is Franck Camhi/Shutterstock.com, (c) Sandro
Bisaro/Moment/Getty Images; T227 (tl) DarrenMower/E+/Getty Images, (tc) peych_p/Shutterstock.
com, (tr) Ales74/Shutterstock.com, (cl) Igor Lateci/Shutterstock.com, (c) gmstockstudio/Shutterstock.
com, (cr) AlexRoz/Shutterstock.com; T230 (tl) track5/E+/Getty Images, (tl) energyy/iStock/Getty
Images, (tr) Tagstock1/iStock/Getty Images, (tr) Tara Moore/Stone/Getty Images, (cl) Images by
Tang Ming Tung/Moment/Getty Images, (c) StockRocket/iStock/Getty Images, (cr) Carlina Teteris/
Moment/Getty Images, (cr) antoniodiaz/Shutterstock.com, (cl) spaxiax/Shutterstock.com, (c) fotogal/
iStock/Getty Images, (cr) OlgaMiltsova/iStock/Getty Images, (bl) Darryl brooks/Shutterstock.com,
(bc) Olga Nayashkova/Shutterstock.com, (br) Brent Hofacker/Shutterstock.com; T232–233 Zenzeta/
Shutterstock.com; T234 (cl) chachamal/iStock/Getty Images, (c) Jacob Lund/Shutterstock.com,
(cr) Corbis/Jupiterimages, (bl) Pressmaster/Shutterstock.com, (bc) Thomas Barwick/DigitalVision/
Getty Images, (br) Maskot/Getty Images; T239 (cl) kali9/iStock/Getty Images; T246 (tl) Paul Cowan/
Shutterstock.com, (tc) Alena Haurylik/Shutterstock.com, (tr) Joshua Resnick/Shutterstock.com.

© National Geographic Learning

T334 | CREDITS

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 334 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 493 ────────

NOTES

© National Geographic Learning

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 335 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 494 ────────

NOTES

© National Geographic Learning

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 336 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 495 ────────

NOTES

© National Geographic Learning

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 337 25/05/21 9:50 PM

──────── Page 496 ────────

NOTES

© National Geographic Learning

WLTB_INT_EM_T219-T338_ptg01.indd 338 25/05/21 9:50 PM