──────── Page 1 ────────

FOURTH EDITION

WORLD
2
LINK
DEVELOPING ENGLISH FLUENCY

John Hughes

Nancy Douglas

James R. Morgan

© National Geographic Learning
TEACHER’S BOOK

TEACHER’S BOOK

L E A R N I N G

Australia • Brazil • Canada • Mexico • Singapore • United Kingdom • United States

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 1 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 2 ────────

L E A R N I N G

© 2021 Cengage Learning, Inc.
National Geographic Learning,
a Cengage Company
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No part of this work covered by the copyright
herein may be reproduced or distributed in any form or by any means,
except as permitted by U.S. copyright law, without the prior written
World Link Level 2 Teacher’s Book: Developing
permission of the copyright owner.
English Fluency, Fourth Edition
“National Geographic”, “National Geographic Society” and the Yellow Border
Publisher: Sherrise Roehr
Design are registered trademarks of the National Geographic Society
Executive Editor: Sarah Kenney
Marcas Registradas
®
Senior Development Editor: Margarita Matte

Director of Global Marketing: Ian Martin
For permission to use material from this text or product,
Heads of Regional Marketing:
submit all requests online at cengage.com/permissions
Charlotte Ellis (Europe, Middle East and Africa
Further permissions questions can be emailed to
Justin Kaley (Asia and Greater China)
permissionrequest@cengage.com
Irina Pereyra (Latin America)

Senior Product Marketing Manager:

Caitlin Thomas
Teacher’s Book
Content Project Manager: Beth Houston
ISBN: 978-0-357-50385-0
Media Researcher: Stephanie Eenigenburg

Cover/Text Design: Lisa Trager
National Geographic Learning
Art Director: Brenda Carmichael
200 Pier 4 Boulevard
Boston, MA 02210
Operations Support: Hayley Chwazik-Gee,
USA
Avi Mednick, Katie Lee

Manufacturing Planner: Mary Beth Hennebury
Locate your local office at international.cengage.com/region

Composition: MPS North America LLC
Visit National Geographic Learning online at ELTNGL.com
Visit our corporate website at www.cengage.com

© National Geographic Learning

Printed in Mexico
Print Number: 01 Print Year: 2021

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 2 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 3 ────────

CONTENTS
World Link Program Walk-through T2
Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis T12
UNIT 1 2
UNIT 2 16
UNIT 3 30
REAL WORLD LINK 1–3 44
UNIT 4 46
UNIT 5 60
UNIT 6 74
REAL WORLD LINK 4–6 88
UNIT 7 90
UNIT 8 104
UNIT 9 118
REAL WORLD LINK 7–9 132
UNIT 10 134
UNIT 11 148
UNIT 12 162
REAL WORLD LINK 10–12 176
Language Summaries 178
Grammar Reference 185
Information Gap Activities 211
Writing Models 213
Supplementary Content Guide T218
Bridge Units T219
Unit Reviews T235
Process Writing T263
Unit Review Audio Scripts T271
Supplementary Content Answer Keys T280
Student’s Book Audio Scripts T285
© National Geographic LearningA Quick Guide to Using the World Link Videos T306
Warm-Up Video Scripts T312
Global Voices Video Scripts T319
World Link Level 2 Workbook Answer Keys T328

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 3 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 4 ────────

WORLD LINK PROGRAM WALK-THROUGH

EXPLORE A COMPLETE UNIT

An updated, dynamic opening spread introduces
the unit topic and related language through
the “Warm-Up Video” and a beautiful National
Geographic photograph. Both the video and
the photograph are supported by engaging
discussion questions designed to get students
talking and sharing.

1

COMMUNITY
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
QUESTIONS.

1. Why do you think this type of activity is good
for the local community?

2. When does your local community come
together for a special event or activity?

WARM-UP VIDEO

A Do you ever play board games? When do
you play them? If not, why?

B Watch the video. Check (✓) the reasons the
people give for playing checkers.

Making friendships

Winning competitions

Learning to communicate

Taking a break from going online

Carrying on traditions

C Watch the video again and complete these
quotes.

1. “We know their family, we know their
friends, we know what they do and how
they in .”

2. “Checkers back a
camaraderie that you will never find
in life again.”

3. “I do not have a yet.
For many years in Tarragona, Spain
I like to think that I’m waiting until I get
local communities, called Castellers,
good .”
have come together and built these
4. “He’s a friend of mine, but on the
human towers.
, he wants to beat me bad.
Of course, he gets every
now and then.”

D Would you like to join the Checkers Club?
GOALS
Lesson A    Lesson B    How important is it to have local communities
/ Talk about your communities    / Describe trends and tendencies    like this? Discuss as a class.
/ Ask about free-time activities    / Argue for and against

Updated “Can Do” Language Goals
© National Geographic Learningencourage students to mindfully interact
with their learning and produce language
in real-world scenarios.

T2 |

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 4 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 5 ────────

WORLD LINK PROGRAM WALK-THROUGH

1A MAKING FRIENDS

VOCABULARY

A Read the article and find out what the numbers in the circles mean. In general, do
you think the numbers are true for you?

Listening and Reading
How large is your actual circle of
friends? 5? 15? More than 150?
input in Lessons A and
According to one theory, humans
can only keep in touch with a
5 15 50 500 5000
B preview the grammar
maximum community of 150 people
at any one time. So, while you might
structure students will
have thousands of so-called friends
from different walks of life, you only
study, building familiarity
have something in common with around 150 of them. If you were planning a party, that number
would be smaller—you’d invite about 50 friends and acquaintances. In the evenings and on
toward confident use.
the weekends, you probably hang out with about 15 on a regular basis. As for your close-knit
family and friends—most of us can count these meaningful relationships on one hand.

B Match the words and phrases in blue with these meanings.
1. a group of people    6. important and deep
2. the meaning is not really true    7. maintain contact
LISTENING
3. different backgrounds    8. close friends
A Look at the photo and read the caption below. Have you ever worn
4. connected by strong    9. people you know, but not
costumes like these? Why do you think people attend events like
relationships    close friends
Comic-Con?
5. shared with other people    10. spend free time with

B Identify a speaker. Listen to four interviews at a Comic-Con
C Work in pairs. Ask and answer these questions.
event. Match the speaker (1–4) to the statement. There is one extra
1. How large is your actual circle of friends?
statement. 2
WORD BANK
camaraderie trust
2. Where do you meet acquaintances and people from different walks of life?
a. This person fell in love at Comic-Con.
and friendship
3. Do you think you are part of a close-knit community?
b. It’s a chance to meet up with old friends.
between people who
spend a lot of time
4. How do you keep in touch with all your family and friends?
c. You can meet famous people and complete strangers.
together
5. Who is one person you have a meaningful relationship with?
d. All the latest computer games are available to try out.

e. It’s an opportunity to express yourself once a year.
D In pairs, discuss these topics and find at least five things you have in common
with each other.
C Listen again. Answer these questions. Circle Yes, No, or Don’t know. 2
• family and friends • local community • use of social media
1. Does Diego think that people are judged Yes / No / Don’t know
for who they are at Comic-Con?
• TV, films, books, music • sports and games • work and education
2. Do most of the people at Comic-Con Yes / No / Don’t know
come from similar backgrounds?
I have three brothers and
3. Does Stella always come to the event Yes / No / Don’t know
two sisters. Me, too.
with her close friends?

4. Has someone taken Stella’s photo Yes / No / Don’t know
4 | UNIT 1
this year?

5. Is the computer game voice-over artist Yes / No / Don’t know
at the event?

6. Does everyone wear a costume at Yes / No / Don’t know
Comic-Con?

7. Did Rachel and Alan start talking in the Yes / No / Don’t know
cafe when they first met?
Comic-Con conventions
around the world attract
8. Did they wear costumes at their wedding? Yes / No / Don’t know
hundreds of thousands
of people each year. They
D Work in pairs. Ask and answer these questions.
dress up as characters
1. In your school or place of work, do you think people can be
from their favorite books
themselves or are they judged?
and movies and have the
opportunity to meet some
2. Are you a member of a particular community, club, or group?
of the actors and authors.
If so, are its members from similar backgrounds or do
Shown below: London.
they come from different walks of life?

© National Geographic Learning
Lesson A | 5

Sample pages shown are from Level 4, Unit 1.
| T3

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 5 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 6 ────────

WORLD LINK PROGRAM WALK-THROUGH

The flexible grammar presentation
SPEAKING A cosplayer dressed as Captain
and communicative practice in the
America arrives at New York
Comic-Con.
A Shawna and Keith work in the same office. Listen to their
lesson, combined with the additional
conversation. Then answer the questions. 3

Shawna: Hi. How was your weekend?
presentation and practice support in the
Do anything fun?

Keith: Yeah, I did. Actually, it’s a bit embarrassing.
Grammar Reference appendix, is perfect
Shawna: Go on. Tell me!
for increasing classroom communication
Keith: Promise not to tell anyone who works in the office?

Shawna: I promise.
or “flipping” the classroom.
Keith: Well, a friend invited me to this event where
everyone dressed up as comic book characters.

Shawna: Oh, you mean Comic-Con! It’s a blast! Who did
you go as?

Keith: Well, there was a group of us, so we all went as a
superhero. I was Captain America.
Point-of-use
Shawna: You’re joking! I want to see photos!

Keith: I don’t have many. This is a picture that shows
pronunciation
us when we arrived.

supports confident
Shawna: You look amazing. Who are all these other people
with you?
communication.
Keith: They asked to have their photo taken with us.
There were thousands of people there and
everyone was so friendly. It was amazing!

Shawna: The next time you go, tell me!

1. Where did Keith go over the weekend?
GRAMMAR
2. Why do you think he doesn’t want Shawna to tell
anyone else?
A Read the Unit 1, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
exercises. Then do the exercises below.

B Practice the conversation with a partner.
SPEAKING STRATEGY 4
DEFINING RELATIVE CLAUSES
Omitting words
Main clause Relative clause
In everyday conversations with friends and
C Work in pairs. Imagine you share an office.
For things This is a photo that shows my family.
colleagues, we often omit words and shorten
Choose one of these events and create a new
sentences: Did you have a good weekend?
For people Don’t tell anyone who works in the office.
conversation similar to the one in A. Include some
Did you do anything fun?
of the useful expressions from the box.
For possession I have a friend whose family is a group of
Do you promise not to tell anyone?
musicians.
1. costume party
For places It’s an event where everyone dresses up.
2. a Carnival or Mardi Gras parade
USEFUL EXPRESSIONS 5
For time This was at the entrance when we arrived.
Have a good weekend / evening?
3. a 70’s party
NON-DEFINING RELATIVE CLAUSES
Do anything fun?
My brother, who’s an accountant, loves going to Comic-Con. (I have one brother.)
Promise not to tell anyone?
D Get together with another pair.
A friend invited me to . . . where everyone . . .
The whole performance was canceled, which was really annoying!
Pair 1: Perform your conversation for the other pair.
Who did you go as? / What did you wear?
Pair 2: Listen. Which useful expressions did you hear?
This picture / photo shows us when . . .
B PRONUNCIATION: Pausing The commas are missing in these
It was amazing! / It was a blast!
sentences with non-defining relative clauses. Listen to where the speaker
The next time you go, tell me!
pauses and write in the commas. Then listen again and repeat. 6
6 | UNIT 1
1. I’ve invited over 50 people to my party which is probably enough.
2. Miles who is probably my best friend can’t come to my wedding!
3. My father’s company which he set up thirty years ago is closing down.
4. Independence Day which is on September 7th in my country is so
much fun.

5. A so-called friend ate my sandwich which is really annoying!

C Work in pairs. First, individually write the names of an object, a famous
person, and an annual event or celebration in your country. Then, write a
definition for each one using a defining relative clause. Next, take turns
reading your definitions aloud. Can your partner guess the words?

It’s a thing that . . . It’s a person who . . . It’s an event where / when . . .

D Rewrite the description below. Make the description more natural and
more interesting by adding new information using relative clauses.

For example: On the weekend, a man, who had just started a new job,
moved into a new apartment, that was . . .
Updated Speaking
On the weekend, a man moved into a new apartment. He didn’t
Strategy features,
know anyone in the building. His neighbors invited him to their
party on the fifth floor. The party started at eight o’clock. He met
now with model audio,
lots of other people.

show students how
E In groups, take turns reading your new descriptions. How many new
relative clauses have your classmates added? Are they defining or
to move through
non-defining?

the stages of a
Lesson A | 7
conversation.
© National Geographic Learning
Designed and tested for the virtual classroom,
these exercises increase communication and
are supported with implementation
suggestions in the Teacher’s Book.

T4 |

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 6 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 7 ────────

WORLD LINK PROGRAM WALK-THROUGH

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Read the text below and answer the questions.
Updated “Active English”
1. What is the purpose of a Community Service Project? Who benefits?
sections bring together
2. How many relative clauses are there in the text? Underline them.

the Language Goals of
Developing a Community Service Project
the lesson in a variety of
Community service is work done by a person or group of people that benefits others. It is often
done near an area where you live, so it’s a great way to meet people from different walks of life
guided, communicative
and help your own community. The people who often benefit most include children and senior
citizens—and, of course, you also benefit by helping others and gaining work experience. It’s
exercises that teach
also a great way to make new friends. Here are six ideas for projects you could do:
learners to express
a. Organize a car wash and donate the    d. Paint over graffiti
profit to a charity    e. Go shopping for elderly people
themselves clearly.
b. Look after a neighbor’s pet when they    f. Plant trees in your local park
are away

c. Coach a youth sports team

B Work in pairs. Discuss and rank the community service projects in A in order of their usefulness
(1 = most useful, 6 = least useful). Think of another project that you and your friends could do in
your local area.

a.    c.    e.    g. Another project

b.    d.    f.
1B GENERATIONS
C Work in groups. Imagine your English class has the opportunity to do a community service project
and your school has offered its building for free.
VOCABULARY
1. Brainstorm ideas for different types of community service that would make good use of the school.
2. Choose the best idea and prepare a list of reasons why it’s a useful community project.
A Look at the results of a survey and discuss these questions.
1. Do you think any of the results are surprising? Why?
D Present each of your ideas in C to the class. Vote on which project is the best idea.
2. These results are from the US. How different do you think they would be in your country?
3. The chart doesn’t show results for Generation Z (people born after 1997). What do you think the
1A GOALS Now I can . . .
percentages would be for that generation?
Volunteers painting over
Talk about my communities    1. Yes, I can.    graffiti on a wall
Connectivity in the United States
Ask about free-time activities    2. Mostly, yes.
Generations . . . own a    . . . own a tablet . . . se social    . . . think the internet
3. Not really.
smartphone    computer    media    has mostly been
good for society

Millennials    93% 53% 86% 84%
Born 1981–1996

Generation X    90% 55% 76% 74%
Born 1965–1980

The Baby Boomers    68% 52% 59% 68%
Born 1946–1964

The Silent Generation 40% 33% 28% 63%
Born before 1946

Source: Pew Research Center, Survey in 2019

B Read these sentences about the chart. Write the names of the correct generations.
8 | UNIT 1
1. The overwhelming majority of Millennials and Generation X own a smartphone.
2. Just over two thirds of own one.
3. About three quarters of use social media and think the internet has been
good for society.

4. Approximately one third of own a tablet computer, whereas just over half of
own one.

5. Nearly two thirds of think the internet has mostly been good for society.

C Study the pairs of words. Do they have a similar meaning or a different
WORD BANK
meaning? Write S or D.
generation people born
S    and living at about the
1. about / approximately
same time
2. majority / minority
tendency when you often
3. huge / overwhelming
behave or do things in a
certain way
4. connected / separated
connectivity the state of
being connected to others
D Carry out a similar survey by asking the four questions from the chart.
fractions one fifth, one
quarter, a third, a half
For example: Do you own a smartphone? Do you think that the internet
has been good . . .?

E Report the results of your survey to the class.
© National Geographic LearningThe majority of us own . . . Just over a third of us . . .
Lesson B | 9

| T5

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 7 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 8 ────────

WORLD LINK PROGRAM WALK-THROUGH

Updated Reading selections more
closely reinforce the language goals,
vocabulary, and grammar of the unit.

5But even if the National Parks are now
one-week vacation without connectivity. For baby
READING
boomers, the figure was exactly a third, at 33%.
embracing technology, that doesn’t mean wiring
For Jonathan Jarvis, director of the National Park
up the parks so you can get a signal on your
Service, this presents a challenge. “Young people
phone. Even after a sublime first day spent on the
are more separated from the natural world than
river and an evening feast of prime rib cooked
perhaps any generation before them.”
over a gas stove, Casey and I experience a bit of
CAN THE MILLENNIALS
internet withdrawal.
4But rather than rage against the times, the
6“We should just let it go,” I suggested. “Try to be
National Parks are now attempting to attract
mindful. Stare at the stars. Drift.”
more school-aged “Generation Z” visitors by
UNPLUG IN THE PARKS?
joining the digital age. Visitors to their website
7“I get it,” replies Casey, “this thing about being
can take a virtual tour of every national park,
As Timothy Egan sets off through the Grand Canyon, how will his millennial
disconnected. But everyone I know likes to
and their social media targets a generation that
son manage without connectivity?
share—publicly—what we’re doing. We are social
spends at least 50 hours a week in front of a
travelers. If you can’t share it now, is it really
1On our journey through the Grand Canyon,
screen—for children 11 to 14 years old, it’s nearly
internet to find the best Mexican restaurant, and
happening? Just a thought.” 7
12 hours a day.
me and my son, Casey, will see ancient fossils
used our smartphone’s GPS to guide us back
from a time when the rock was under the ocean.
to our hotel. Now for the diet: a fast from our
We’ll take a boat down the Colorado River and,
devices—our overconnectedness. What could
A Answer the questions in pairs.
D Understand words
ACADEMIC SKILL
at night, we’ll sleep under the sky and look at
be a better antidote to our eight-second attention
from context.
1. Look at the photo. How are the people
Understanding
the universe. As we get ready to leave, my son
span than a landscape that is nearly two billion
Circle the words
words from context
connected? How do they feel about it?
complains he has no phone service and can’t
years old?
and phrases that
When you read a text
2. Read the title of the article. What do
check the score for a game. I tell him that’s a
with new words, try to
can replace the
3I sense that Casey is not convinced. And in that,
you think millennials are unplugged and
guess their meaning
underlined words.
good thing.
he is not alone. A recent survey reported that
disconnected from in the parks?
from context before
Use the paragraph
2Casey is a millennial, in his mid-20s. I’m a baby
you look them up in a
the overhwelming majority of millennials—71%
numbers to help you
dictionary. Then try to
boomer. My generation loves the national parks
—said they would be “very uncomfortable” on a
B Read the article about a father (F) and son (S).
find them.
use the words in your
Who feels the following? Write F, S, or both.
to death. His generation will have to save them in
own sentences.
Paragraph 2
the future. The night before, we gorged on social
1. He is excited about the journey.
1. I like the national parks a lot.
media, sent our final text messages, used the
2. He spent the night before online.
2. I’m not hungry today! I ate so much ice cream
3. He isn’t sure about not having the
last night!
internet for a few days.
3. Today I’m going to eat very little for a day
4. After the first day, he wishes he could
or so.
connect.
Paragraph 4

4. Young people often get angry about the age
C Read the article again and answer these
they are growing up in.
questions in your notebook.
Paragraph 5
1. What does the father hope to see and do on
5. Wow! The view from our hotel is amazingly
their journey?
beautiful!
2. Why does his son complain?
Paragraph 6
Young adults hold hands at a campground
3. What two generations do they each belong to?
6. You need to be more aware of other
in Joshua Tree National Park, California.
4. Where do they eat the night before they
people’s feelings.
leave?

5. What do the percentages 71% and 33%
E Read the last paragraph in the article again.
refer to?
Discuss the question in groups. Does
6. How are the National Parks trying to attract
everyone you know like to share—publicly—
Generation Z?
what they’re doing? What are the advantages
and disadvantages of sharing online?

10 | UNIT 1 Lesson B | 11

© National Geographic Learning

T6 |

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 8 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 9 ────────

WORLD LINK PROGRAM WALK-THROUGH

LISTENING

A You are going to hear a news report about the community in the
photo. What do you think the word indigenous means? What other
words might describe this community?

B Listen for the main idea. Listen to the news report. What do you
think is the main message of the report? 8

1. Modern technology has a negative effect on traditional
communities.

2. Traditional communities fail because they don’t use technology.
3. Modern technology can be helpful in traditional communities.

C Listen again and answer the questions by writing notes. 8
ACADEMIC SKILL
New Academic Skill
Note-taking
Where is the news report
from?
When you take notes,
features develop critical
listen for key words,
What technology does
such as verbs and
Rumilda use?
nouns. The speaker
thinking and study skills.
What does a “forest
stresses these types of
monitor” do?
words.
What is changing the
community’s land?

What did the forest
provide them in the past?

GRAMMAR
D How do you think digital and modern technology have improved
people’s lives in your country or local community? Tell the class.
A Read the Unit 1, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
Members of an indigenous
exercises. Then do the exercises below.
community called the Mbya
SUBJECT-VERB AGREEMENT
Guaraní in Paraguay
Subject + singular verb

Everyone / Someone / No one has a laptop.
Each / Every student speaks two languages.
One of / None of our community uses a cell phone.
Two hundred kilometers / miles / meters isn’t a long way. (with quantities and amounts)
The United States / The United Nations has many states / members. (with plural countries /
organizations)
Subject + plural verb

None of / Some of my family use technology.
Both my sister and my brother live with me in this apartment.
Subject + singular verb or plural verb

Our community lives in this region. (= the community as a whole)
Our community live in houses around this region. (= individual members of the community)
The majority of my friends spend time on social media. (majority of + plural count noun + plural verb)
The majority of our time is wasted on social media. (majority of + noncount noun + singular verb)

B Check (✓) the correct sentences and correct any mistakes.
1. One of my apps aren’t working properly.
2. None of my class know how to answer this question.
3. The whole family is going on vacation.
4. Not everyone speak Spanish in Paraguay.
12 | UNIT 1
5. One half of the students own a tablet.
6. The country doesn’t agree on this political issue.
7. The country has a public holiday today.
8. The majority of millennials has grown up using a cell phone.

C Match the sentences.
1. My soccer team is ready to start the game.
a. Two players are late.
2. The team aren’t all here yet.
b. Two players forgot theirs.
3. The team feels optimistic.
c. Everyone is here.
4. The team don’t all have their uniforms.
d. They think they can win.

D Complete these sentences with information that is true for you, using an appropriate
verb. Make two sentences true and one sentence false.

1. My family .
2. The majority of my friends .
3. One of my favorite is .

© National Geographic Learning
E Work in pairs. Take turns reading your sentences and guess which one is false.

Lesson B | 13

Games are
incorporated to make
learning grammar and
vocabulary in context fun.
| T7

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 9 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 10 ────────

WORLD LINK PROGRAM WALK-THROUGH

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Look at the photo below and read the caption. Do you think the older fans are
Active English sections in
enjoying the moment more than the other fans? Why? Tell the class.
Lesson B feature writing
B WRITING Read the Unit 1 Writing Model in the appendix and answer the
and an extended
questions below.

1. Is the writer for or against digital communities?
communication task.
2. How many arguments does the writer give for her opinion?
This scaffolded sequence
3. Overall, do you agree or disagree with her views?
of exercises gives learners
C Work in groups. Brainstorm arguments for digital communities in response to the
a reason to communicate
writer of the paragraph in B.

in a personalized way
D Choose the three best arguments from C and write your own paragraph.
and supports them through
E Work in two groups. You are going to have a classroom debate and then
the process.
vote on this topic: “Digital communities and social media have had a positive
impact on humans.” One group is for digital communities and social media.
The other group is against.

1. Each group prepares its list of arguments either for or against. You have
five minutes to prepare.

2. Each group takes turns presenting their main arguments. Then they
discuss and ask questions about their opinions.
GLOBAL VOICES
3. Take a class vote.

A Watch the video. Number the events described (from 1 to 5) in the order you see them.
1B GOALS Now I can . . .
1
a. K. David Harrison introducing his organization and its purpose
1. Yes, I can.
Describe trends and tendencies
b. Young students learning words from their ancestors’ language
2. Mostly, yes.
Argue for and against
c. A map of the world showing areas where languages are dying out
3. Not really.
d. Someone looking up words on the Talking Dictionaries website
As a movie star arrives, almost everyone
e. A father and son recording words and phrases from their language
is more interested in their phone than the
moment.
B Watch the video again. Circle the correct answer.
1. What is the main aim of the Living Tongues Organization?
a. To teach disappearing    b. To preserve endangered    c. To save traditional
languages    languages    communities

2. What is David Harrison’s opinion of technology?
a. That it is good for    b. That it is a very positive    c. That it is a positive thing
teaching language    thing    in his work

3. Who usually records the endangered languages?
a. Harrison and his    b. The people who    c. Teams of experts
colleagues    speak it

4. How do local communities benefit from the Talking Dictionaries website and app?
a. They can share local    b. They learn how to use    c. They share their
news and information    modern technology    language and culture
with each other    with the wider world
14 | UNIT 1

C Work in pairs. David Harrison’s Living Tongues Organization sometimes asks people
to donate money so they can save languages. Imagine you are going to advertise the
work of Harrison’s organization in order to raise money. Which benefits would you
emphasize in your advertising? What slogan can you use in your advertisement?

For improved output, an
updated Writing section
is now supported by a
new appendix that
features annotated
models.

© National Geographic Learning
K. David Harrison and Greg
Anderson interview Ichiro
John, a Mwoakilloan elder.

Lesson B | 15

New “Global Voices” sections at the end of each
unit allow students to demonstrate achievement
of the Language Goals by first watching speakers
model the language in a new video program and
then speaking the language themselves in the
related exercises, helping them to personalize
T8 |    topics and produce language with confidence.

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 10 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 11 ────────

WORLD LINK PROGRAM WALK-THROUGH

New “Real World Link” sections
after every three units feature
projects that practice the
language in collaborative,
relevant settings, helping
learners to review and
reinforce language lessons.

REAL WORLD LINK WORLD FESTIVALS UNITS 1–3
w

A Read about three festivals and complete the notes in the chart.
Children enjoying ice slides
at the Annual Snow Festival    Time of year and Who is it for? What makes it    What is the
In Sapporo, Japan    location?    special?    entertainment?

Spring in the city
Fallas
of Valencia

No money, no
Burning Man
cell phones

People from Japan
Snow Festival
and overseas

B Work in groups. Describe a festival or event in your town, city, or region.
Talk about:

• the time of year and the location
• who it is for
• what makes it special
• what you can see and do

C Work in groups and plan your own festival. Brainstorm ideas and try to
make the following decisions.

• What time of year does it take place?
• Where is it?
• Who is it for?
• What makes it special or different?
• What entertainment is there? (e.g., music, art, yoga)
• Other ideas?
Fallas Festival

In the spring, the Spanish city of Valencia celebrates a huge street festival. Known as Fallas (in
D You Choose You need to advertise your new festival. Choose an option
Spanish) or Falles (in the local Valencian dialect), it lasts for five days and nights. The Valencians
and create your advertisement.
and thousands of tourists enjoy live music, theater, fireworks, and parades with costumes. Then,
Option 1 Write a description of the festival for a website.
on the final night, different local communities bring out huge sculptures that they have created and
set fire to them.
Option 2 Record a short video to promote the festival.
Burning Man Festival
Option 3 Make a slideshow with photos and a voice narration.
Every summer, 70,000 people from different walks of life build a temporary city of tents in the
middle of the Nevada desert for the “Burning Man Festival.” Everyone is responsible for providing
E Read or watch another group’s advertisement for their festival. Answer the
the entertainment and bringing what they need—including food and water. Nothing is for sale, so
questions and tell another group your answers.
money is useless. And cell phones don’t work because there is no connectivity in the desert.
1. From the advertisement, did you understand the festival and who it is
Sapporo Snow Festival
for?
The very first Sapporo Snow Festival was started in 1950 by a group of high school students. It
2. Do you think there is something new or original about the festival?
has since grown into a major international winter festival. For 7 days, around 2 million people from
3. Would you like to go to the festival? Why or why not?
Japan and overseas visit Sapporo to look at hundreds of snow sculptures that might feature a
special event or a famous place or person. There are also different types of snow slides and snow
F Work with your group. Discuss the feedback in E and decide if you need to
mazes, which are popular with children.
change or add something to your festival.

44 | UNITS 1–3 45

New “You Choose”
exercises develop
© National Geographic Learning
learner autonomy.

| T9

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 11 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 12 ────────

MAKE TEACHING AND LEARNING

EASIER AND
MORE ENGAGING
WITH WORLD LINK
World Link provides language instruction in print and digital that’s
perfect for all classrooms.

TEACH
lively, engaging lessons that get
students speaking.
The Classroom Presentation Tool helps
teachers to present the Student’s Book
pages, play audio and video, and increase
participation through content and
exercises that get students talking!

A fun, optional video program meets a
variety of teaching and learning needs.

> Increase meaningful communication in
class by giving students opportunities to
connect about something interesting, like
PLACE
stories from National Geographic Explorers
in the new Global Voices videos.
students simply and reliably.
Adaptive and mobile-friendly, the
© National Geographic Learning
> Boost learner confidence by providing
National Geographic Learning Online
natural models of spoken English.
Placement Test places students in the
correct level of World Link, aligns to the
> Entertain and engage learners in fun,
CEFR, and delivers a skill-specific diagnostic
familiar situations that present language
report for each test taker.
in the contexts where learners will use it
most frequently.

T10 |

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 12 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 13 ────────

STAY CONNECTED AND
DEVELOP TEACHING SKILLS.

Sign up for the National Geographic
Learning Webinar Series to develop
virtual teaching skills, participate
in World Link-specific professional
development, and engage with a
variety of other timely topics.

ELTNGL.com/webinars
LEARN AND TRACK
with My World Link Online Practice and
Visit National Geographic Learning’s
Student’s eBook.
In Focus blog for a variety of 21st
For students, the mobile-friendly platform
century instructional tips from experts
optimizes learning and practice through
in English Language Teaching.
customized reteaching and adaptive
practice. For instructors, progress-tracking is
ELTNGL.com/infocus
made easy through the shared gradebook.

/ ELTNGL
ASSESS
learner performance and progress with
the ExamView® Assessment Suite.
For formative and summative assessment,
teachers create and customize tests and© National Geographic Learning
quizzes easily using the ExamView®
Assessment Suite, available online.

| T11

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 13 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 14 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

PART ONE: ENGAGING IN PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT

A good English language teacher knows all the
This section of the World Link Lesson Planner
grammar rules of English.
is designed to help you make your World Link
textbook part of your professional development.
1 2 3 4
Although English language teachers often do not
think of their textbooks as part of their professional
A good English language teacher is aware of his or
development, we believe that the World Link
her students’ feelings about English language and
textbooks can and should be part of it, and in this
culture.
section, we show you how.
1 2 3 4
The exercises in this section were designed so you
can complete all of them individually, but if you can
A good English language teacher is aware of his
find a colleague to do them together with you, you
or her own feelings about English language and
will both learn more.
culture.

In the first part of this section, Engaging in
1 2 3 4
Professional Development, we will look at the
following questions:
A good English language teacher gives clear and
concise feedback.
What kind of an English language teacher are you?
What does “professional development” mean to
1 2 3 4
you?
A good English language teacher loves English.

1 2 3 4
A DESCRIBING YOURSELF
There are many more qualities and characteristics
At the beginning of a course, we often ask our
of a good English language teacher, but the
students to describe themselves, but how often do
important point is to know what we mean when we
we describe ourselves?
think or talk about being a good English language
teacher.
TASK 1
Write an X on each of the lines below, nearest to the
TASK 3
end that best describes the kind of English language
Complete the statement below in 50 words or fewer,
teacher you are.
and share your completed statement with another
new teacher experienced
teacher who has completed the same exercise.
teacher
In my particular teaching and learning context, the
focused on focused on
ideal English language teacher is someone who ...
structure meaning

teacher- studentcentered centered

aim for aim for
accuracy fluency

teach for teach for
B STARTING YOUR OWN
examination communicative
© National Geographic Learning
AUTOBIOGRAPHY
purposes purposes
Many English language teachers ask their students
to write about themselves, and most English
TASK 2
language teachers ask their students to do fill-
Circle a number for each statement that follows, to
in-the-blank activities. But how often do we write
show how you feel about each statement.
descriptions of ourselves and fill in the blanks?
1 = Strongly Disagree    3 = Agree

2 = Disagree    4 = Strongly Agree

T12 |

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 12 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 15 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

use a lot of pictures, drawings, photographs, and
TASK 4
other images in our classrooms.
Fill in the blanks in the short passage below.

I first became interested in being an English
TASK 6
language teacher in (time
In the box below draw a small, simple picture that
/ place). My first position as an English language
shows what you do and how you feel about being
teacher was in (place). I felt
an English language teacher. Using a spider map
(feelings) before my first
(see Teacher’s Resources on the companion site for
lesson. The students were
an example), write one key word or phrase in the
(adjective), and I felt
center of the box, then draw lines coming out from
(feelings) when that first lesson was over! I now feel
that center, with a word or phrase at the end of each
when a lesson is over.
line that describes what you do and how you feel
about being an English language teacher.
I enjoy being an English language teacher because
(reason). One of the main
challenges I face as an English language teacher
is (challenge). If I had the
chance, I would make the following changes to
my life and work as an English language teacher:
.

This exercise is called Starting Your Own
Autobiography because it is just a beginning. You
could continue, and write about your first day, first
week, or first semester as an English language
teacher. Writing about our own early experiences as
a teacher is one way to reflect on those times and
to think about how we’ve changed since then—and
what has remained unchanged.

So far, you have completed four short, simple
tasks to help you think about the kind of English
language teacher you are. It’s important to know
As we explained at the start of this section, you can
who we are and what we do before we try to
complete exercises alone, but if you can find one
develop professionally, because all professional
or more teachers to do them with, you will all learn
development is based on personal development.
more. The Task 6 activity is a good example. To
learn the most about yourself from this activity, you
Try the next two tasks to help you describe who
and another teacher should each draw your spider
you are and what you do as an English language
map on large, blank sheets of paper, then show
teacher.
them to each other and talk about what each picture
represents.
TASK 5
Imagine you meet someone at a party who’s never
heard of teaching English as a second or foreign
C WHAT IS PROFESSIONAL
language. They ask you what you do, and you tell
DEVELOPMENT?
them, “I’m an English language teacher.” They reply,
There is a strong link between personal and
“An English language teacher? What’s an English
professional development. So, it will help you to
language teacher? What do English language
write your own personal definition of professional
teachers do? What do you do?”
© National Geographic Learningdevelopment here:
How would you reply?
TASK 7
For me, “professional development” means ...

As English language teachers, we work mostly
with words. But English language teachers (and
students) are also often very visual, and many of us

| T13

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 13 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 16 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

It is important to stress that “professional development”
❑ Writing a “teaching philosophy” (a statement of
does not only mean going to conferences, reading
your pedagogic beliefs)
books, or writing papers. Although these are very
Tried and learned
helpful professional development activities, they are
just three possible ways from a large number and a
wide variety of different ways, which we will learn more
about in this section of the book.
Not tried because

TASK 8
Check (✓) the professional development activities
The first few tasks in this section helped you to
that you have tried. If you have tried the activity,
think about who you are and what you do. Then we
what did you learn? If you have not tried this activity
asked you to think about what you understand by the
before, why not?
term professional development, what developmental
❑ Keeping a teaching journal/diary
activities you’ve engaged in, and what you have
learned from those activities.
Tried and learned
Let’s now return to the question we asked at the very
beginning: What is professional development?
Not tried because
Professional development is anything you choose
to do because you want to be better at what you
do. Choice and trust are two essential features of
❑ Watching yourself teaching on video
professional development. You can be required to
Tried and learned
have another teacher in your classroom, observing
you. But if you didn’t choose to have that person
there, and if you don’t trust the person, there will be
Not tried because
little or no development.

Professional development is also about change. But
it’s not always about changing what you do. It can
❑ Watching another teacher teaching
be about changing the way you think about what
Tried and learned
you do. In this section, you have completed various
tasks. If you carried out these activities carefully and
thoughtfully, then you were engaged in professional
development. If you learned anything about your
Not tried because
professional self from doing these activities, then you
were engaged in professional development.
❑ Having another teacher watch you teaching
Drawing relationships: Bringing together the
Different parts of our work
Tried and learned

As we mentioned earlier, English language teachers
(and learners) are often very visual. So, another way
Not tried because
of thinking about professional development is to
use simple shapes to show complex relationships.
Here’s an example, based on three key aspects of
❑ Teaching together with another teacher
professional development we’ve discussed:
Tried and learned
Trust
© National Geographic Learning
Not tried because

Professional
❑ Creating a teaching portfolio    Development

Tried and learned
Choice Change

Not tried because

T14 |

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 14 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 17 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

One interpretation of this diagram might be: Trusting
Analogies are powerful ways of helping us
yourself and others, engaging in professional
understand what we think and mean and say. For
development because you choose to do so,
example, we could say, “Being an English language
and willingness to change are all necessary for
teacher is like being the captain of a ship, because
professional development to take place.
we are all working together on a voyage of discovery.”

Another example:
TASK 11
Textbook
Complete the same sentence, but with your own
analogy:

In my teaching and learning context, being an
English language teacher is like
English Language
Teaching and Learning

Teacher Student
because

An interpretation of the diagram above might be:
English language teachers and students work
An activity like this can be part of your professional
together, using English language textbooks, to
development because, even though it seems short
teach and learn the language.
and simple, it may require a lot of thought to create
a good analogy and then describe it in clear and
TASK 9
concise language.
Try to put into your own words what this next diagram
Change anD professional DevelopMent
shows:
Course
As we said earlier, development is all about
change—changing what we do, how we do it,
and how we think about what we do. Before we
can engage in professional development, we
should take some time to look at our feelings about
English Language
change.
Syllabus

TASK 12
Lesson Activity
Circle a number for each statement below to show
In professional development, teachers often talk
how you feel about the statement.
about reflective practice. This means thinking about
1 = Strongly Disagree
what we do so we can understand more, and then
2 = Disagree
make changes so we can do what we do better.
3 = Agree
4 = Strongly Agree
TASK 10
Think of three aspects of what you do as an English
Change is difficult.
language teacher, and label the three corners of the
triangle below. In the middle of the triangle, write
1 2 3 4
what it is that connects the three corners, then write
Change takes a long time.
a brief description of how the three are connected.

1 2 3 4

Change takes a lot of energy.
© National Geographic Learning
1 2 3 4

Change is complex.

1 2 3 4

Making ConneCtions: piCturing professional
Change is painful.
DevelopMent
1 2 3 4
English language teachers also often make use of
Change is usually negative.
analogies in their teaching so that simple language
can be used to express complex thoughts.
1 2 3 4
| T15

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 15 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 18 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

Once you have read all the statements on page T15
D THE LANGUAGE OF PROFESSIONAL
and circled a number for each one, add up your total
DEVELOPMENT
score. If you have a total score of more than 20, you
Like all professions, teaching has its own language
have probably had a lot of experience of dealing with
which teachers can use to talk about teaching.
challenging change. If you have a total of between
Within this language of the profession there are a
12 and 15, the changes you have experienced may
number of words and phrases that are commonly
have been largely positive, and with a score of 10
used when talking about professional development.
or less, you may have experienced relatively little
change or few changes, so far.
As a language teacher you know that when learning
a language, it is not necessary to remember all
Most of us tend to naturally resist change, as we are
the meanings of all the words, but it is important
often creatures of habit—we like things to stay the
to be familiar with them. This task has, then, been
same. But change is one of the only things we can
created to help you become more familiar with
be sure of in modern life. It is sometimes even said
some commonly used terms related to teacher
that “change is the only constant”!
professional development.

TASK 13
As English language teachers, we often ask our
Think of an important change in your life—either
students to complete “matching” activities, linking
personal or professional. Was it difficult and
a word with its meaning. So, let’s do one of those
complicated? Did it take a lot of time and energy?
activities here.
Are things better now, because of the change?
TASK 14
Make a few brief notes about this change. How
Match some simple definitions with some of
would you describe it to a friend? Once you have
the words and phrases most commonly used to
made a few notes, use these to describe your
describe different approaches to professional
change to a friend or colleague, and ask them to do
development for language teachers. (Check your
the same with you.
answers on page T22.)

worD or phrase

1. Case studies
2. Action research
3. Teaching portfolio
4. Mentoring
Change may be difficult, and it may even be
5. Development
painful, but the one thing worse than changing is
not changing. As teachers, we are preparing our
6. Reflective practice
students for a constantly changing world. If we
7. Teaching journal
are to help them, we must be willing and able to
change, grow, and develop. It is even possible that
8. Shock language
change is at the heart of all teaching and learning.
9. Peer observation
Here are some ways to make change less difficult:
10. Team teaching
11. Training
1. Break it down into small steps.
12. Coaching
2. Set yourself realistic, achievable goals at each
step.
13. Awareness
3. Expect resistance and identify where there will
© National Geographic Learning14. Attitude
be areas of resistance.

4. Think of ways to overcome this resistance; for
example, think of the benefits of the change.

5. Allow enough time for each step to be
completed.

6. Reward yourself as you achieve each goal
and complete each step.

T16 |

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 16 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 19 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

a. Structured, systematic ways of thinking
TASK 15
Circle a number for each of the statements that
about what we do and who we are
follow to show whether each reason for engaging in
b. A diary of significant events and moments
professional development is important for you or not.
in our teaching day
1 = Not Important
c. Short stories based on real teaching and
2 = Important
learning events with different endings
3 = Very Important
d. Sudden and complete immersion in a new
and unfamiliar language
To keep up to date with new developments in ELT

e. Being conscious of your psychological
1 2 3
state and of your external environment
To maintain an interest in and enthusiasm for
f. A set of skills acquired for the completion
teaching
of particular tasks
1 2 3
g. Two (or more) teachers observing each
To keep our teaching creative and enjoyable
other’s teaching and giving feedback

h. A collection of documents and texts that
1 2 3
illustrate different aspects of our work
To meet and exchange ideas with other teachers
i. Two (or more) teachers planning,
1 2 3
preparing, and teaching together
To develop new skills needed for new technology
j. A senior teacher helps a junior teacher to
develop his or her knowledge and skills
1 2 3
k. A structured, step-by-step investigation
To avoid teacher burnout
of some aspect of our teaching, our
students, and so on
1 2 3

l. Two teachers at the same level help each
To increase and improve job security
other to develop in a number of different
1 2 3
and agreed-upon areas
To be promoted to a more senior position
m. Becoming better at what you do through
growth and change
1 2 3
n. Ways of understanding and responding to
To improve salary and status
ourselves, others, and events
1 2 3
E PAINLESS PROFESSIONAL
To learn about new approaches to English language
DEVELOPMENT: IS IT REALLY
teaching and learning
POSSIBLE?
There are many reasons why many English
1 2 3
language teachers do not engage in as much
There are many other reasons for engaging in
professional development as they might like to do.
professional development. Can you identify some of
As we discussed earlier, development requires
them?
change, and change can be difficult. Two other
© National Geographic Learning
common problems are a lack of time and a lack
of money. What are some of the obstacles to
professional development that you face in your
teaching and learning context?

Although there may be challenges to overcome,
In the same way that change does not have to be
there are many reasons why we should engage in
painful, professional development does not necessarily
professional development.
need a lot of additional time and money. It is possible
to engage in professional development by doing
what we are already doing, but doing it with more
awareness and more reflection than we usually do.

| T17

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 17 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 20 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

2. Deciding which textbook to use is in itself
F MAKING YOUR TEXTBOOK
a professional decision, drawing on your
PART OF YOUR PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
knowledge, skills, and experience.
To review some of the main points we have
3. The way in which a textbook is used—
discussed so far:
which units are used, which are not, what
supplementary material you provide, and so
Professional development is anything you choose to
forth—also requires a lot of knowledge, skills,
do because you want to be better at what you do.
and experience.
Professional development does not only mean
going to conferences, reading books, or writing
papers. There are many different ways to grow
PART TWO: PURSUING
professionally.
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
USING YOUR TEXTBOOK
We also touched upon various types of professional
development activities, such as the following:
At the end of Part One, we said:
Teaching journal    Team teaching
Careful and thoughtful use of any kind of teaching
Case studies    Mentoring
material can be part of a teacher’s professional
Action research    Coaching
development process.
Teaching portfolio    Peer observation
Also in Part One, we defined reflective practice as
a set of structured and systematic ways of thinking
But one method that few English language teachers
about what we do as English language teachers,
think of is using their English language textbook as
including the ways in which we use materials.
part of their professional development.

Reflective practice is an important component of
In these pages, you have so far completed
professional development, and can be thought of as
15 different tasks. If you completed each of these
a kind of “stepping back.” As we do this, we create
tasks carefully and thoughtfully, you were actively
the necessary distance to see ourselves, and what
engaged in professional development.
we do, more clearly.
But what about the textbook itself? How can an
If you take time to reflect on the ways in which you
English language textbook be part of an English
use your English language textbook, you can make
language teacher’s professional development?
this part of your professional development. Part
Most English language teachers do not think of their
Two: Pursuing Professional Development Using Your
textbooks as tools for professional development.
Textbook has been created and designed to help
Some of the reasons are:
you do this.

1. Textbooks are used to teach students, so they
At the end of Part One, we also said:
are not thought of as ways for teachers to learn
Deciding which textbook to use is in itself a
about teaching.
professional decision, drawing on your knowledge,
skills, and experience.
2. Textbooks are part of our regular, routine,
everyday classroom work.
It is true that not all English language teachers
3. Professional development is still often thought
are allowed to choose the textbooks they believe
would work best for them and for their students.
of as doing something different, something
Many teachers are simply given books selected by
“extra,” or going somewhere else, away from
someone else, or textbooks assigned according
© National Geographic Learning
where we are now.
to standardized, national exams. But even if we do
But here are some reasons why you should think
not choose the textbook we work with, there are
of your textbooks as a part of your professional
ways, even in this situation, to create opportunities
development.
for professional development. In Part Two, we will
explore some of these opportunities.
1. Careful and thoughtful use of any kind of
If you do decide or help to decide which English
teaching material can be part of a teacher’s
language textbooks you and your students use,
professional development process.
then you are making important decisions because
the textbooks we choose and use can directly
affect the quality and quantity of English language
teaching and learning in our classrooms.
T18 |

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 18 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 21 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

If we read a short article about how to evaluate
A WHAT IS TEACHING?
textbooks, so that our decisions are informed not only
TASK 16
by our knowledge, skills, and experiences, but also
In the space below, write your own personal
by a systematic way of assessing textbooks, then we
definition of teaching.
are also engaged in professional development.

Teaching is ...
Thinking about the decisions we make when we
select an English language textbook can become
part of our professional development. But once the
decision about which textbook to use has been
made, there are many other decisions that need to
be made as well.

There are as many different meanings of teaching
as there are teachers, because teaching—like
C SHARING AND CHARTING YOUR
learning—is a personal experience. As it is a unique
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
experience, it is never exactly the same for any
These activities are designed so that they can be
two teachers or for any two students. Compare
carried out by one person, but as teaching and
your definition with the description below of how
learning are interactive events, you will learn more
teaching and learning happens.
from these activities if you work on them with another
teacher, or with a group of teachers, that you know
Teaching and learning are the result of a series of
and trust.
choices and decisions, made by the teacher and by
the students. Sometimes, the choices and decisions
Sharing is an important part of your professional
are made together, between students and teachers,
development. Even if you are all using different
and sometimes they are made independently.
English language textbooks, you can still learn
Teaching—like learning—is about making choices
a lot from each other by exchanging ideas and
and making decisions.
experiences, as the challenges you face and the
decisions you make are often similar.
In a single English language lesson, the teacher—
and the students—may make hundreds of moment-
We have left spaces for you to write your responses
to-moment choices and decisions.
to the different tasks and activities in this section for
two reasons.
B MAKING CHOICES AND DECISIONS
First, your notes will help you share your thoughts
ABOUT TEXTBOOKS AS PART OF OUR
with other teachers. But your notes may also form
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
an important part of documenting your professional
Although choices and decisions are similar, they are
development, even if you work by yourself.
not exactly the same. For example, in an English
Development, growth, and change—like teaching
language class, a teacher may choose between
and learning—are often invisible, so it is important
one student and another, both of whom have raised
to keep a record of your development, for yourself
their hands to answer a question. But decisions in
and for others.
classrooms are often a little more complicated, for
example, deciding whether or not to continue with
D COMPARING TEXTBOOKS
a particular activity, as your decision here will affect
the timing for the rest of the lesson.
TASK 17
If you decided to use this World Link textbook, on
In the English language classroom, there are so
what did you base that decision?
many decisions being made that teachers are
unaware of many—or even most—of them. But away
© National Geographic LearningI decided to use this World Link textbook because ...
from the classroom, we can reflect on our decisions
so we can understand better why we decided to
follow one course of action rather than another.

So, if we think carefully about why we decide to use
one textbook over another, we are engaged in a
professional development process.

If we think and talk with other teachers about
the strengths and weaknesses of one textbook
compared to another, we are engaged in
If the decision to use this textbook was made by
professional development.
someone else, talk with them about that decision.

| T19

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 19 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 22 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

Q3. Can you name all the parts of Lesson A in the
TASK 18
right order?
Think of some other English language textbooks you
have used recently. How is this World Link textbook
1.
similar to those other textbooks, and in what ways is
it different from those textbooks?
2.
Similarities
3.
1.
4.
2.
5.
3.
6.
Differences
Q4. True or False? The second part of each unit is
called Lesson B, and is made up of six main
1.
parts.
2.

3.
Q5. Can you name all the parts of Lesson B in the
right order?
A good English language textbook should help the
teacher and the students learn more, and learn
1.
more effectively and more enjoyably. Your textbook
should add to your lesson, not detract from it.
2.

3.
TASK 19
How could this World Link textbook help develop
4.
your English teaching?
5.

6.

Q6. Can you give the unit number and title of two of
the units in your World Link textbook?

Unit number:

Unit title:
E GETTING TO KNOW YOUR WORLD
LINK TEXTBOOK
Unit number:
When we make decisions, we generally base
Unit title:
those decisions on our knowledge, skills, and
experiences.
Q7a. How many Review Units are there in this
textbook?
If we are to make the most of our textbooks and use
them as part of our professional development, we
must have a thorough knowledge of the textbook.
Q7b. How many units are reviewed in each Review
Unit?
How well do you know your World Link textbook?

TASK 20
Complete this short quiz and see how much you
© National Geographic LearningQ8. Who are the writers of this textbook?
know!

Q1. How many units are there in your World Link
textbook?
Q9. Where, when, and by whom was this textbook
published?
Q2. True or False? The first part of each unit is called
Lesson A and is made up of six main parts.

T20 |

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 20 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 23 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

F EXPLORING OUR DECISIONS BY
G ADOPTING AND ADAPTING YOUR
ASKING QUESTIONS
ENGLISH LANGUAGE TEXTBOOK
The key to making your textbooks part of your
The questions in Task 21 are related to adapting
professional development is to keep asking
your World Link textbook to your local teaching
questions that explore the decisions you make as
and learning context, as every student and every
you use the textbook.
teacher is unique, as we discussed earlier, and
every teaching and learning context is unique.
Before you use a textbook, it is important to
Because of this uniqueness, once a textbook has
consider it in its entirety, then make decisions about
been chosen, or adopted, it may also then need to
individual units, and finally make decisions about
be “localized,” or adapted.
the different parts within each unit.

TASK 22
TASK 21
What are some aspects of your English language
Here are some examples of questions you should
teaching and learning environment that make it
consider before starting to use your World Link
different from others?
textbook.

Q1. Do you plan to use all 12 of the units in the
textbook? If so, why? If not, which units will you
not use, and why?

TASK 23
Describe the students with whom you expect you will
be using this book.

Q2. Do you intend to use the units in the order in
Q1. First language:
which they are presented? If yes, why?
Q2. Age range:

Q3. Number of years they have studied English:

Q4. English language ability levels:
Q3. If you plan to change the order of the units and
present them in a different sequence, why, and
what sequence do you plan to use?
Q5. Reasons for learning English:
Reason(s) for changing the sequence:

Q6. What makes these students different from other
students?

Alternative sequence:

Q7. You are unique, too! What makes you different
© National Geographic Learningfrom other English language teachers you work
with?

| T21

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 21 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 24 ────────

The World Link Teacher’s Book Professional Development Pages by Dr. Andy Curtis, Anaheim University

In Part One, we talked about the importance of
H BEFORE, DURING, AND AFTER
change in professional development.
Another way of using our textbooks as part of your
professional development is to make it a focus of
TASK 24
your pre-lesson, during-lesson, and post-lesson
Are there any changes you plan to make to your
reflection.
World Link textbook to adapt it to your English
language teaching and learning environment?
We have already looked at many examples of some
of the questions you might ask before and during
If so, what kinds of changes will you make?
the lesson, related to your textbook. But there are
many questions you should ask afterwards. These
include:

• Did that unit or lesson work the way I thought it
would? If not, how was it different? It is important
to remember here that a lesson may go better
than you thought it would, so “different” can be
TASK 25
“different but better” as well as “different and
Are there any changes you will make to your World
worse” than you thought it would be!
Link textbook to adapt it to your English language
students?
• If I had to reteach the same lesson, using the
same unit, what would I do the same, what
If so, what kinds of changes will you make?
would I do differently, and why?
• Were the materials at the right level for my
students? If so, how do I know? If not, what
changes can I make so that the material
matches the students’ levels more closely?
• Did students appear to understand all of the
instructions for all of the exercises?
TASK 26
Are there any changes you will make to your World
Link textbook to adapt it to your teaching style(s)?
I CONCLUSION
If so, what kinds of changes will you make?
We hope we have helped you to start thinking of
your World Link textbook as part of your professional
development. By using your textbook carefully,
thoughtfully, and reflectively, your textbook can help
you learn as well as help you teach. Good luck!
Enjoy!

There are other questions you could ask yourself
as well, including: What local objects and artifacts
can I—and my students—bring in to supplement
and localize the material in the textbook? These
“pedagogical artifacts” are sometimes called
“realia.”

Dr. Andy Curtis is the 50th President of the TESOL International
Association (2015–2016). He is also a professor in the Graduate
© National Geographic LearningSchool of Education at Anaheim University in California.
Answers to Task 14

1. c, 2. k, 3. h, 4. j, 5. m, 6. a, 7. b, 8. d, 9. g, 10. i, 11. f, 12. l,
13. e, 14. n

T22 |

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 22 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 25 ────────

FOURTH EDITION

WORLD
2
LINK
DEVELOPING ENGLISH FLUENCY

JOHN HUGHES

NANCY DOUGLAS

JAMES R. MORGAN

© National Geographic Learning

L E A R N I N G

Australia • Brazil • Canada • Mexico • Singapore • United Kingdom • United States

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 23 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 26 ────────

L E A R N I N G

© 2021 Cengage Learning, Inc.
National Geographic Learning,
a Cengage Company
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No part of this work covered by the copyright
herein may be reproduced or distributed in any form or by any means,
except as permitted by U.S. copyright law, without the prior written
World Link Level 2: Developing English Fluency,
permission of the copyright owner.
Fourth Edition
“National Geographic”, “National Geographic Society” and the Yellow Border
Publisher: Sherrise Roehr
Design are registered trademarks of the National Geographic Society
Marcas Registradas
Executive Editor: Sarah Kenney
®
Development Editor: Katie Davis

Director of Global Marketing: Ian Martin
For permission to use material from this text or product,
Heads of Regional Marketing:
submit all requests online at cengage.com/permissions
Further permissions questions can be emailed to
Charlotte Ellis (Europe, Middle East and Africa)
permissionrequest@cengage.com
Irina Pereyra (Latin America)

Senior Product Marketing Manager:

Caitlin Thomas
Student’s Book
Content Project Manager: Beth Houston
ISBN: 978-0-357-50217-4
Student’s Book + My World Link Online:
Media Researcher: Stephanie Eenigenburg
ISBN: 978-0-357-50218-1
Cover/Text Design: Lisa Trager

Art Director: Brenda Carmichael
National Geographic Learning
Operations Support: Hayley Chwazik-Gee,
200 Pier 4 Boulevard
Avi Mednick, Katie Lee
Boston, MA 02210
Manufacturing Planner: Mary Beth Hennebury
USA

Composition: MPS North America LLC
Locate your local office at international.cengage.com/region

Visit National Geographic Learning online at ELTNGL.com
Visit our corporate website at www.cengage.com

© National Geographic Learning

Printed in Mexico
Print Number: 01 Print Year: 2021

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 24 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 27 ────────

Acknowledgments
Thank you to the educators who provided invaluable feedback throughout the development of the World Link series:

Asia
Michael Jake Arcilla, Aii Language Center, Phnom Penh; Fintan Brennan, Meisei University, Tokyo; Tyler Burden, Meisei
University, Tokyo; Catherine Cheetham, Tokai University, Tokyo; Will Fan, Xiamen Wanda, Xiamen; Mark Firth, Oberlin University,
Machida; Hiroshi Fukuda, Jumonji University, Niiza; Thomas Goetz, Hokusei Gakuen University, Sapporo; Helen Hanae, Reitaku
University, Kashiwa; Louis Liu, Meten English, Shenzen; Shaun McLewin, Hanseo University, Seosan; Raymond Monk Jr., Meten
English, Dalian; Donald Patterson, Seirei Christopher University, Hamamatsu City; Mongkol Sodachan, Rangsit University,
Pathum Thani; Robert Wright, Meten English, Chengdu; Elvira Wu, Meten English, Quanzhou; I-Cheng Wu, Southern Taiwan
University of Science and Technology, Tainan City; Xie Yu, SFLEP, Shanghai; Vince Zhang, Thinktown, Hangzhou; Vivi Zhang,
Xiamen Wanda, Xiamen

Latin America
Anthony Acevedo, ICPNA, Lima; Jorge Aguilar, Centro de Estudios de Idiomas UAS, Culiacan; Lidia Stella Aja, Centro Cultural
Colombo Americano, Cali; Ana Laura Alferez, Instituto Domingo Savio, Mexico City; Lúcia Rodrigues Alves, Seven, Sao Paulo;
Alessandra Atarcsay, WOWL Education, Rio de Janeiro; Isabella Campos Alvim, IBEU Copacabana, Rio de Janeiro; Ana
Berg, Ana Berg EFL School, Rio de Janeiro; Raul Billini, Santo Domingo; Isabela Villas Boas, Casa Thomas Jefferson, Brasilia;
Lourdes Camarillo, Escuela Bancaria Comercial, Mexico City; Cinthia Castañeda, Centro de Idiomas, Coatzacoalcos; Enrique
Chapuz, Universidad Veracruzana, Coatzacoalcos; Giseh Cuesta, MESCyT, Mexico City; Carlos Fernández, ICPNA, Lima; Vania
Furtado, IBEU Copacabana, Rio de Janeiro; Mariana Garcia, BUAP, Puebla; Jeanette Bravo Garonce, IPA Idiomas, Brasilia;
Luiz Henrique Bravo Garonce, IPA Idiomas, Brasilia; Fily Hernandez, Universidad Veracruzana, Coatzacoalcos; Manuel Hidalgo
Iglesias, Escuela Bancaria Comercial, Mexico City; Dafna Ilian, ESIME, Azcapotzalco; Rubén Jacome, Universidad Veracruzana,
Coatzacoalcos; Beatriz Jorge, Alumni, Sao Paulo; Gledis Libert, ICDA, Santo Domingo; Rocio Liceaga, International House,
Mexico City; Elizabeth Palacios, ICPNA, Lima; Emeli Borges Pereira Luz, UNICAMPI, Sao Paulo; Patricia McKay, CELLEP,
Sao Paulo; Victor Hugo Medina, Cultura Inglesa Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte; Maria Helena Meyes, ACBEU, Salvador; Isaias
Pacheco, Universidad Veracruzana, Coatzacoalcos; Miguel Rodriguez, BUAP, Puebla; Nelly Romero, ICPNA, Lima; Yesenia
Ruvalcaba, Universidad de Guadalajara, Guadalajara; Eva Sanchez, BUAP, Puebla; Marina Sánchez, Instituto Domingo Savio,
Mexico City; Thais Scharfenberg, Centro Europeu, Curitiba; Pilar Sotelo, ICPNA, Lima; Rubén Uceta, Centro Cultural Domínico
Americano, Santiago De Los Caballeros; Italia Vergara, American English Overseas Center, Panama City; Maria Victoria Guinle
Vivacqua, UNICAMP, Sao Paulo

United States and Canada
Bobbi Plante, Manitoba Institute of Trades and Technology, Winnipeg; Richard McDorman, Language On Schools, Miami, FL;
Luba Nesteroba, Bilingual Education Institute, Houston, TX; Tracey Partin, Valencia College, Orlando, FL

© National Geographic Learning

Acknowledgments | iii

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 25 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 28 ────────

SCOPE AND SEQUENCE
SCOPE AND SEQUENCE
SCOPE AND SEQUENCE
SCOPE AND SEQUENCE
WARM-UP
WARM-UP
WARM-UP
WARM-UP
UNIT LESSON VOCABULARY LISTENING GRAMMAR
UNIT LESSON VOCABULARY LISTENING GRAMMAR
UNIT LESSON VOCABULARY LISTENING GRAMMAR
UNIT LESSON VOCABULARY LISTENING GRAMMAR
VIDEO
VIDEO
VIDEO
VIDEO
LESSON A    Shabana    People I know
Conversations    The simple
Shabana    People I know    Conversations
The simple
MY LIFE P. 2    LESSON A
LESSON A    Shabana    People I know
Conversations    The simple
LESSON A    Shabana    People I know
Conversations    The simple
MY LIFE P. 2
People p. 4    Basij-Rasikh:    p. 4 (classmate,
about people’s    present vs.
People p. 4    Basij-Rasikh:    p. 4 (classmate,
about people’s    present vs.
People p. 4    Basij-Rasikh:    p. 4 (classmate,
about people’s    present vs.
People p. 4    Basij-Rasikh:    p. 4 (classmate,
about people’s    present vs.
The Fearless    coworker, friend )    relationships p. 5
the present
The Fearless    coworker, friend )    relationships p. 5
the present
The Fearless    coworker, friend )    relationships p. 5
the present
The Fearless    coworker, friend )    relationships p. 5
the present
LESSON B    Educator p. 2
LESSON B    Educator p. 2
continuous p. 7
continuous p. 7
LESSON B    Educator p. 2
LESSON B    Educator p. 2
continuous p. 7
continuous p. 7
Lessons Learned    Classes and
Interview with a
Lessons Learned    Classes and
Interview with a
Lessons Learned    Classes and
Interview with a
Lessons Learned    Classes and
Interview with a
p. 9    lessons p. 9
student about her Review of the
p. 9    lessons p. 9
student about her Review of the
p. 9    lessons p. 9
student about her Review of the
p. 9    lessons p. 9
student about her Review of the
(get good grades,
school p. 12    simple past p. 13
(get good grades,    school p. 12
simple past p. 13
1
(get good grades,
school p. 12    simple past p. 13
(get good grades,
school p. 12    simple past p. 13
1
prepare for exams,
prepare for exams,
prepare for exams,
prepare for exams,
take classes)
take classes)
take classes)
take classes)

LESSON A    Holy Mole! p. 16 Describing food    Conversation    The comparative
LESSON A    Holy Mole! p. 16 Describing food    Conversation    The comparative
LET’S EAT! P. 16
LESSON A    Holy Mole! p. 16 Describing food    Conversation    The comparative
LESSON A    Holy Mole! p. 16 Describing food    Conversation    The comparative
LET’S EAT! P. 16
Foods We Like    p. 18 (delicious,    about regional    form of
Foods We Like    p. 18 (delicious,    about regional    form of
Foods We Like    p. 18 (delicious,    about regional    form of
Foods We Like    p. 18 (delicious,    about regional    form of
p. 18    spicy, sweet )    dishes p. 19    adjectives p. 21
p. 18    spicy, sweet )    dishes p. 19    adjectives p. 21
p. 18    spicy, sweet )    dishes p. 19    adjectives p. 21
p. 18    spicy, sweet )    dishes p. 19    adjectives p. 21
LESSON B    Healthy habits    Talk about dinner The superlative
LESSON B    Healthy habits    Talk about dinner The superlative
LESSON B    Healthy habits    Talk about dinner The superlative
LESSON B    Healthy habits    Talk about dinner The superlative
Eating Well p. 23    p. 23 (diet, health    times in different form of
Eating Well p. 23    p. 23 (diet, health    times in different form of
Eating Well p. 23    p. 23 (diet, health    times in different form of
Eating Well p. 23    p. 23 (diet, health    times in different form of
benefits, lifestyle )    cultures p. 26    adjectives p. 27
benefits, lifestyle )    cultures p. 26    adjectives p. 27
2
benefits, lifestyle )    cultures p. 26    adjectives p. 27
benefits, lifestyle )    cultures p. 26    adjectives p. 27
2

LESSON A    The Luckiest    Lucky or unlucky?
Talk about
Stative verbs
LESSON A    The Luckiest    Lucky or unlucky?
Talk about
Stative verbs
MYSTERIES P. 30
LESSON A    The Luckiest    Lucky or unlucky?
Talk about
Stative verbs
LESSON A    The Luckiest    Lucky or unlucky?
Talk about
Stative verbs
MYSTERIES P. 30
You’re in Luck!    Unlucky Man to p. 32 (by chance,
making your own
p. 35
You’re in Luck!    Unlucky Man to p. 32 (by chance,
making your own
p. 35
You’re in Luck!    Unlucky Man to p. 32 (by chance,
making your own
p. 35
You’re in Luck!    Unlucky Man to p. 32 (by chance,
making your own
p. 35
p. 32    Ever Live p. 30    good / bad luck, on
luck p. 33
p. 32    Ever Live p. 30    good / bad luck, on
luck p. 33
p. 32    Ever Live p. 30    good / bad luck, on
luck p. 33
p. 32    Ever Live p. 30    good / bad luck, on
luck p. 33
Modals of
Modals of
purpose )
purpose )
Modals of
Modals of
purpose )
purpose )
LESSON B
News report
present
LESSON B
News report
present
LESSON B
News report
LESSON B
News report
present
present
Unsolved    Solving mysteries
on changes in
possibility p. 41
Unsolved    Solving mysteries
on changes in
possibility p. 41
Unsolved    Solving mysteries
on changes in
Unsolved    Solving mysteries
on changes in
possibility p. 41
possibility p. 41
Mysteries p. 37    p. 37 (explanation,
human behavior
Mysteries p. 37    p. 37 (explanation,
human behavior
Mysteries p. 37    p. 37 (explanation,
human behavior
Mysteries p. 37    p. 37 (explanation,
human behavior
3
investigate, proof )
during a full moon
investigate, proof )
during a full moon
3
investigate, proof )
during a full moon
investigate, proof )
during a full moon
p. 40
p. 40
p. 40
p. 40

REAL WORLD LINK 1 Create a TV Quiz Show p. 44
REAL WORLD LINK 1 Create a TV Quiz Show p. 44
REAL WORLD LINK 1 Create a TV Quiz Show p. 44
REAL WORLD LINK 1 Create a TV Quiz Show p. 44
LESSON A    The Future of    Describing trends Talk about online
Quantity
LESSON A    The Future of    Describing trends Talk about online
Quantity
TRENDS P. 46
LESSON A    The Future of    Describing trends Talk about online
Quantity
LESSON A    The Future of    Describing trends Talk about online
Quantity
TRENDS P. 46
How We Shop    the American    p. 48 (about, exactly, shopping trends
expressions p. 51
How We Shop    the American    p. 48 (about, exactly, shopping trends
expressions p. 51
How We Shop    the American    p. 48 (about, exactly, shopping trends
expressions p. 51
How We Shop    the American    p. 48 (about, exactly, shopping trends
expressions p. 51
p. 48    Mall p. 46    increase )    p. 49
p. 48    Mall p. 46    increase )    p. 49
p. 48    Mall p. 46    increase )    p. 49
p. 48    Mall p. 46    increase )    p. 49
Advice with
Advice with
Advice with
Advice with
LESSON B    Fashion p. 53    Conversation
could, should,
LESSON B    Fashion p. 53    Conversation
could, should,
LESSON B    Fashion p. 53    Conversation
could, should,
LESSON B    Fashion p. 53    Conversation
could, should,
Fashion on    (inexpensive, style,    about an online
ought to, and
Fashion on    (inexpensive, style,    about an online
ought to, and
Fashion on    (inexpensive, style,    about an online
ought to, and
Fashion on    (inexpensive, style,    about an online
ought to, and
Demand p. 53    unique )    clothing service
had better p. 57
Demand p. 53    unique )    clothing service
had better p. 57
4
Demand p. 53    unique )    clothing service
had better p. 57
Demand p. 53    unique )    clothing service
had better p. 57
4
p. 56
p. 56
p. 56
p. 56

LESSON A    A Whirlwind    Doing chores and
Conversations    Requests with
LESSON A    A Whirlwind    Doing chores and
Conversations    Requests with
MY NEIGHBORHOOD P. 60
LESSON A    A Whirlwind    Doing chores and
Conversations    Requests with
LESSON A    A Whirlwind    Doing chores and
Conversations    Requests with
MY NEIGHBORHOOD P. 60
Chores and    Look at    running errands
about    modal verbs and
Chores and    Look at    running errands
about    modal verbs and
Chores and    Look at    running errands
about    modal verbs and
Chores and    Look at    running errands
about    modal verbs and
Errands p. 62    Shanghai p. 61 p. 62 (do laundry,
appointments    mind p. 65
Errands p. 62    Shanghai p. 61 p. 62 (do laundry,
appointments    mind p. 65
Errands p. 62    Shanghai p. 61 p. 62 (do laundry,
appointments    mind p. 65
Errands p. 62    Shanghai p. 61 p. 62 (do laundry,
appointments    mind p. 65
make dinner, sweep ) p. 63
make dinner, sweep ) p. 63
make dinner, sweep ) p. 63
make dinner, sweep ) p. 63
LESSON B
Subject relative
LESSON B
Subject relative
LESSON B
Subject relative
LESSON B
Subject relative
Getting Around    Getting around
Podcast about    clauses with that
Getting Around    Getting around
Podcast about    clauses with that
Getting Around    Getting around
Podcast about    clauses with that
Getting Around    Getting around
Podcast about    clauses with that
5
p. 67    p. 67 (cyclists, get
a popular    p. 71
p. 67    p. 67 (cyclists, get
a popular    p. 71
5
p. 67    p. 67 (cyclists, get
a popular    p. 71
p. 67    p. 67 (cyclists, get
a popular    p. 71
around, sidewalks )    neighborhood
around, sidewalks )    neighborhood
around, sidewalks )    neighborhood
around, sidewalks )    neighborhood
p. 70
p. 70
p. 70
p. 70
© National Geographic Learning
LESSON A    What Should    Applying to
Podcast about an Plans and
LESSON A    What Should    Applying to
Podcast about an Plans and
GOALS P. 74
Podcast about an Plans and
Podcast about an Plans and
LESSON A    What Should    Applying to
LESSON A    What Should    Applying to
GOALS P. 74
Starting Out    I Do After High college p. 76
unusual school    decisions with be
Starting Out    I Do After High college p. 76
unusual school    decisions with be
unusual school    decisions with be
unusual school    decisions with be
Starting Out    I Do After High college p. 76
Starting Out    I Do After High college p. 76
p. 76    School? p. 75    (apply, consider,
p. 77    going to and will
p. 76    School? p. 75    (apply, consider,
p. 77    going to and will
p. 77    going to and will
p. 77    going to and will
p. 76    School? p. 75    (apply, consider,
p. 76    School? p. 75    (apply, consider,
decide )
p. 79
decide )
p. 79
decide )
p. 79
decide )
p. 79
LESSON B
Conversation
LESSON B
Conversation
Conversation
Conversation
LESSON B
LESSON B
After Graduation    Life after
about future    Predictions with
After Graduation    Life after
about future    Predictions with
about future    Predictions with
about future    Predictions with
After Graduation    Life after
After Graduation    Life after
6
p. 81    graduation p. 81
plans p. 84    be going to and
p. 81    graduation p. 81
plans p. 84    be going to and
6
plans p. 84    be going to and
plans p. 84    be going to and
p. 81    graduation p. 81
p. 81    graduation p. 81
(do an internship,
will p. 85
(do an internship,
will p. 85
(do an internship,
will p. 85
(do an internship,
will p. 85
opportunity,
opportunity,
opportunity,
opportunity,
someday )
someday )
someday )
someday )

REAL WORLD LINK 2 Design a Survey p. 88
REAL WORLD LINK 2 Design a Survey p. 88
REAL WORLD LINK 2 Design a Survey p. 88
REAL WORLD LINK 2 Design a Survey p. 88

iv
iv

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 26 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 29 ────────

UNITS 1–6
UNITS 1–6

ACTIVE    ACADEMIC    GLOBAL
ACTIVE    ACADEMIC    GLOBAL
PRONUNCIATION SPEAKING READING WRITING
PRONUNCIATION SPEAKING READING WRITING
ENGLISH    SKILL    VOICES
ENGLISH    SKILL    VOICES
Question stress p. 5 Introducing
Try, Try    Write about    Ask questions to    Summarize    English in Your
Question stress p. 5 Introducing
Try, Try    Write about    Ask questions to    Summarize    English in Your
a person to
Again! p. 10 something you get to know your    p. 11 Life p. 15
a person to
Again! p. 10 something you get to know your    p. 11 Life p. 15
someone
learned to do    classmates p. 8
someone
learned to do    classmates p. 8
else and
p. 14
else and
p. 14
Talk about past school
responding to
Talk about past school
responding to
experiences p. 14
introductions
experiences p. 14
introductions
p. 6
p. 6

Sentence stress    Making and    The Best    Write a    Make a radio ad for a Word webs    Alex Sigrist:
Sentence stress    Making and    The Best    Write a    Make a radio ad for a Word webs    Alex Sigrist:
p. 19 responding to    Foods to Eat restaurant    new restaurant p. 22    p. 18 How to Make an
p. 19 responding to    Foods to Eat restaurant    new restaurant p. 22    p. 18 How to Make an
suggestions    p. 24    review p. 28    Omelet p. 29
suggestions    p. 24    review p. 28    Omelet p. 29
p. 20    Create a restaurant
p. 20    Create a restaurant
menu and compare
menu and compare
places to eat p. 28
places to eat p. 28

Dropped syllables    Saying    Mysterious    Write about    Play a game of chance
Using    Nora Shawki:
Dropped syllables    Saying    Mysterious    Write about    Play a game of chance
Using    Nora Shawki:
synonyms    Mysteries from
p. 33    something is    Artwork    an unsolved    and guess information
synonyms    Mysteries from
p. 33    something is    Artwork    an unsolved    and guess information
likely or not    p. 38    mystery p. 42    about group members
p. 37    the Past p. 43
likely or not    p. 38    mystery p. 42    about group members
p. 37    the Past p. 43
likely p. 34    p. 36
likely p. 34    p. 36
Predicting
Predicting
Identify and present
information
Identify and present
information
possible theories
p. 39
possible theories
p. 39
and explanations for
and explanations for
mysteries p. 42
mysteries p. 42

Unstressed of p. 51 Polite / direct    The Facts    Fill out a style    Discuss shopping    Scanning p. 55 Amanda Cosco:
Unstressed of p. 51 Polite / direct    The Facts    Fill out a style    Discuss shopping    Scanning p. 55 Amanda Cosco:
disagreement    about Fast    profile p. 58 experiences p. 52    The Trend of
disagreement    about Fast    profile p. 58 experiences p. 52    The Trend of
p. 50    Fashion    Infer meaning    Rental Fashion
p. 50    Fashion    Infer meaning    Rental Fashion
p. 54    Give advice as a    from context    p. 59
p. 54    Give advice as a    from context    p. 59
personal shopper    p. 56
personal shopper    p. 56
p. 58
p. 58

Reduced forms    Making    Flying to    Write about a    Create your own
Listening    Welcome to
Reduced forms    Making    Flying to    Write about a    Create your own
Listening    Welcome to
of could you and    appointments    Work p. 68 neighborhood    service and role-play
for words    Lima! p. 73
of could you and    appointments    Work p. 68 neighborhood    service and role-play
for words    Lima! p. 73
would you p. 63    p. 64    p. 72    making appointments
connected to a
would you p. 63    p. 64    p. 72    making appointments
connected to a
p. 66
topic p. 70
p. 66
topic p. 70
Play a game
Play a game
to describe a
to describe a
neighborhood p. 72
neighborhood p. 72

Reduced forms of    Responding to    Life’s    Write a    Interview classmates
© National Geographic LearningRetelling p. 83 Getting Started
Retelling p. 83 Getting Started
Reduced forms of    Responding to    Life’s    Write a    Interview classmates
going to and will    bad news and    Essential    personal    about future plans
with Your Goals
with Your Goals
going to and will    bad news and    Essential    personal    about future plans
p. 79    offering to help Questions    profile p. 86    p. 80
p. 87
p. 87
p. 79    offering to help Questions    profile p. 86    p. 80
p. 78    p. 82
p. 78    p. 82
Talk about personal
Talk about personal
profiles and ask a
profiles and ask a
partner for personal
partner for personal
information p. 86
information p. 86

Scope and Sequence | v
Scope and Sequence | v

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 27 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 30 ────────

SCOPE AND SEQUENCE
SCOPE AND SEQUENCE
WARM-UP
UNIT LESSON VOCABULARY LISTENING GRAMMAR
WARM-UP
VIDEO
UNIT LESSON VOCABULARY LISTENING GRAMMAR
VIDEO
LESSON A    Celebrating    Hosting a party
Talks about    Agreeing with
CELEBRATIONS P. 90
LESSON A    Celebrating    Hosting a party
Talks about    Agreeing with
Parties p. 92    the World’s    p. 92 (celebrate,
coming of age    other people’s
CELEBRATIONS P. 90
Parties p. 92    the World’s    p. 92 (celebrate,
coming of age    other people’s
Favorite Sport    guests, invite )    celebrations p. 93
statements: so,
LESSON B    p. 90
Favorite Sport    guests, invite )    celebrations p. 93
statements: so,
too, neither, and
LESSON B    p. 90
Festivals and    Festivals and
News report    either p. 95
too, neither, and
Festivals and    Festivals and
News report    either p. 95
Holidays p. 97    events p. 97
about a race
Holidays p. 97    events p. 97
about a race
(gather, participate,    p. 100
Time clauses
7
(gather, participate,    p. 100
Time clauses
take place )
with before,
7
take place )
with before,
after, when p. 101
after, when p. 101

LESSON A    Snack Attack    Discussing
Conversation    The past
ONCE UPON A TIME P. 104
LESSON A    Snack Attack    Discussing
Conversation    The past
What’s the Story p. 105 stories p. 106
about writing    continuous:
ONCE UPON A TIME P. 104
What’s the Story p. 105 stories p. 106
about writing    continuous:
About? p. 106    (based on,
a story with    statements /
About? p. 106    (based on,
a story with    statements /
characters, fiction )    crowdsourcing
questions p. 109
LESSON B
characters, fiction )    crowdsourcing
questions p. 109
p. 107
LESSON B
Modern Fairy    Modern fairy
Adverbs of
p. 107
Modern Fairy    Modern fairy
Adverbs of
Tales p. 111    tales p. 111 (brave,
Story about    manner p. 115
8
Tales p. 111    tales p. 111 (brave,
Story about    manner p. 115
discover, incredible ) Thunder and
8
discover, incredible ) Thunder and
Lightning p. 114
Lightning p. 114

LESSON A    Volcanology: A Qualities needed
Talks about    The present
WORK P. 118
LESSON A    Volcanology: A Qualities needed
Talks about    The present
Skills and    Life in the Field for work p. 120
different jobs    perfect p. 123
WORK P. 118
Skills and    Life in the Field for work p. 120
different jobs    perfect p. 123
Qualities p. 120    p. 118    (adventurous,
p. 121
The simple past
Qualities p. 120    p. 118    (adventurous,
p. 121
punctual,
The simple past
LESSON B    responsible )
Interview with a    and the present
punctual,
LESSON B    responsible )
Interview with a    and the present
Dream Jobs
storyboard artist    perfect p. 129
Dream Jobs
storyboard artist    perfect p. 129
p. 125    Describing a job
p. 128
9
p. 125    Describing a job
p. 128
p. 125 (demanding,
9
p. 125 (demanding,
rewarding, well
rewarding, well
paid )
paid )

REAL WORLD LINK 3 Give an Elevator Pitch p. 132
REAL WORLD LINK 3 Give an Elevator Pitch p. 132
LESSON A    The Google    Using the phone
Phone call    Asking for
STAY IN TOUCH P. 134
LESSON A    The Google    Using the phone
Phone call    Asking for
On a Call p. 136    before Google    p. 136 (check your
and video call    permission p. 139
STAY IN TOUCH P. 134
On a Call p. 136    before Google    p. 136 (check your
and video call    permission p. 139
p. 134    phone, get a text,    conversations
LESSON B    make a call )
p. 134    phone, get a text,    conversations
p. 137    Verb + infinitive
LESSON B    make a call )
Always
vs. verb + gerund
p. 137    Verb + infinitive
Always
vs. verb + gerund
Connected p. 141    Phone etiquette
Conversations    p. 145
Connected p. 141    Phone etiquette
Conversations    p. 145
p. 141 (allow, ignore, about phone
10
p. 141 (allow, ignore, about phone
rude )    etiquette p. 144
10
rude )    etiquette p. 144

LESSON A    Kids React to    Describing
Lecture about
Used to p. 153
TECHNOLOGY P. 148
LESSON A    Kids React to    Describing
Lecture about
Used to p. 153
Then and Now    Old Computers devices p. 150
bad technology
TECHNOLOGY P. 148
Then and Now    Old Computers devices p. 150
bad technology
p. 150    p. 148    (affordable, durable,
predictions p. 151 Comparisons
with as . . . as
p. 150    p. 148    (affordable, durable,
predictions p. 151 Comparisons
rechargeable )
with as . . . as
LESSON B
Interview about    p. 159
rechargeable )
LESSON B
Interview about    p. 159
Making Life    Using appliances
new technology
Making Life    Using appliances
new technology
Better p. 155    and devices p. 155
to help blind
11
Better p. 155    and devices p. 155
to help blind
(log in, plug in, scroll
people p. 158
11
(log in, plug in, scroll
people p. 158
down )
down )

Conversation
Modal verbs of
LESSON A    The Airport    Preparing for
TRAVEL P. 162© National Geographic Learning
Conversation
Modal verbs of
about an
necessity p. 167
LESSON A    The Airport    Preparing for
Before You Go    That Never    travel p. 164 (apply
TRAVEL P. 162
about an
necessity p. 167
upcoming trip
Before You Go    That Never    travel p. 164 (apply
p. 164    Sleeps p. 162    for a visa, book
Question form
upcoming trip
tickets, get travel    p. 165
p. 164    Sleeps p. 162    for a visa, book
Question form
review p. 173
LESSON B    insurance )
tickets, get travel    p. 165
review p. 173
Interview with
LESSON B    insurance )
Adventures in
Interview with
Andrés Ruzo
Adventures in
Traveling p. 169    Travel plans
12
Andrés Ruzo
p. 169 (boarding,
about travel
Traveling p. 169    Travel plans
12
p. 169 (boarding,
about travel
delayed, depart )
experiences
delayed, depart )
experiences
p. 172
p. 172

REAL WORLD LINK 4 Make a Travel Ad p. 176
REAL WORLD LINK 4 Make a Travel Ad p. 176

vi
vi

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 28 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 31 ────────

UNITS 7–12
UNITS 7–12
ACTIVE    ACADEMIC    GLOBAL
PRONUNCIATION SPEAKING READING WRITING
ACTIVE    ACADEMIC    GLOBAL
ENGLISH    SKILL    VOICES
PRONUNCIATION SPEAKING READING WRITING
ENGLISH    SKILL    VOICES
Reduced want to    Inviting    Get Ready    Write about    Plan a party, and    Make    Celebrating the
Reduced want to    Inviting    Get Ready    Write about    Plan a party, and    Make    Celebrating the
p. 94 someone to do to Get    a holiday or    make and respond to    connections    New Year p. 103
p. 94 someone to do to Get    a holiday or    make and respond to    connections    New Year p. 103
something;    Messy p. 98    festival p. 102    invitations p. 96    p. 93
something;    Messy p. 98    festival p. 102    invitations p. 96    p. 93
accepting or
accepting or
refusing an    Invent an unusual
refusing an    Invent an unusual
invitation p. 94    holiday p. 102
invitation p. 94    holiday p. 102

Pausing p. 114 Telling a story; The Cinderella Write a modern Tell stories with
Using parts of How to Tell an
Pausing p. 114 Telling a story; The Cinderella Write a modern Tell stories with
Using parts of How to Tell an
showing    Story p. 112 fairy tale p. 116 classmates and guess
words to guess Impactful Story
showing    Story p. 112 fairy tale p. 116 classmates and guess
words to guess Impactful Story
interest and    if they are true p. 110
meaning p. 107 p. 117
interest and    if they are true p. 110
meaning p. 107 p. 117
finding out
finding out
what happened    Find the differences
what happened    Find the differences
p. 108    between two fairy
tale images p. 116
p. 108    between two fairy
tale images p. 116

Reduced for in time Interviewing    Asher Jay:    Write a formal    Discuss job
Word forms    Corey Arnold:
Reduced for in time Interviewing    Asher Jay:    Write a formal    Discuss job
Word forms    Corey Arnold:
expressions p. 123 for a job p. 122 Creative    email p. 130 requirements and
p. 120 Two Jobs, Two
expressions p. 123 for a job p. 122 Creative    email p. 130 requirements and
p. 120 Two Jobs, Two
Conservationist    role-play a job
Passions p. 131
Conservationist    role-play a job
p. 126    interview p. 124
Passions p. 131
p. 126    interview p. 124
Read a job ad and
Read a job ad and
choose the best email
choose the best email
response p. 130
response p. 130

Stress with    Using the    Have    Write informal    Role-play a customer
Collocations    Talking Tech
Stress with    Using the    Have    Write informal    Role-play a customer
Collocations    Talking Tech
clarification p. 137 phone p. 138 Smartphones    messages    service phone call
p. 143 p. 147
clarification p. 137 phone p. 138 Smartphones    messages    service phone call
p. 143 p. 147
Changed    p. 146    p. 140
Changed    p. 146    p. 140
Our Lives for
Our Lives for
Better or for    Read and discuss
Better or for    Read and discuss
Worse? p. 142    informal messages
p. 146
Worse? p. 142    informal messages
p. 146

used to / use to    Offering a    How Smart Is Write about a    Describe how your life Taking notes
Amber Case:
used to / use to    Offering a    How Smart Is Write about a    Describe how your life Taking notes
Amber Case:
p. 153 counterargument Your Home?    robot p. 160 has changed in the    p. 151
Calm Technology
p. 153 counterargument Your Home?    robot p. 160 has changed in the    p. 151
Calm Technology
p. 152    p. 156    past five years p. 154
p. 161
Discourse
p. 152    p. 156    past five years p. 154
p. 161
Discourse
Design a robot that    markers p. 157
Design a robot that    markers p. 157
solves a problem
solves a problem
p. 160
p. 160

© National Geographic LearningClosed and Travel
Reduced have to    Saying you’ve    Going Solo Is    Write a    Decide as a group
Closed and    Travel
open questions Experiences
Reduced have to    Saying you’ve    Going Solo Is    Write a    Decide as a group
and has to p. 165 forgotten    the Way to Go! customer    what to pack for a trip
open questions Experiences
p. 174    p. 175
and has to p. 165 forgotten    the Way to Go! customer    what to pack for a trip
something    p. 170    satisfaction    p. 168
p. 174    p. 175
something    p. 170    satisfaction    p. 168
p. 166    survey p. 174
Discuss travel-related
p. 166    survey p. 174
Discuss travel-related
customer surveys
customer surveys
p. 174
p. 174

Scope and Sequence | vii
Scope and Sequence | vii

WLTB_L2_FM_ptg01.indd 29 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 32 ────────

UNIT 1
1
ABOUT THE PHOTO
The photo shows a typical day in
the life of people at the Bottletree
Cafe. People from Birmingham,
MY LIFE
Alabama, meet here for the food
and live music. The photo was
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
QUESTIONS.
taken by Susan Seubert. She
specializes in travel photography
1. What are the people doing?
They are sitting, talking, and laughing.
and has worked all over the world.
2. Does the activity look fun to you? Why or
why not?
Her photos often appear in National
Geographic Traveler magazine.
WARM-UP VIDEO

A Watch a video about a day in the life of
INTRODUCE THE THEME
Shabana Basij-Rasikh and her students in
Afghanistan. Number the actions (1–5) in the
In this unit, students will explore
order you see them.
their personal relationships, and
3
a. The teacher writes on the board.
the different ways they learn and
1
b. Shabana arrives at the school.
practice new skills.
4
c. A girl learns to ride a bicycle.
5
d. The girls describe their future plans.
In Lesson A, students learn to talk
2
e. The girls have a lesson in their
about people and relationships.
classroom.
They also practice the listening
strategies of listening for gist and
B Read the sentences and then watch the video
again. Write the missing words.
for details, and they learn how to
1. When Shabana was young, there were no
make introductions. Finally, they
schools
for girls.
review describing habits, facts,
Six
2. percent of women in
and schedules, versus describing
Afghanistan have a college degree.
actions happening now, for a short
become
3. Shabana needed to an
time, or for an extended period.
educator.
first
4. SOLA is the girls’ boarding
In Lesson B, students talk about
school in Afghanistan.
safe
their classes and describe things
5. At SOLA, they create a
space for girls.
they have learned to do. They
learn
6. The girls come to SOLA to
practice the reading strategies
to become future leaders.
of understanding the main idea
7. When you educate a girl, you educate
and summarizing what they have
family
her , her community, her
read. Finally, they review the
society, and the world.
whole unit by talking about school
C Imagine you are making a similar video about
experiences, and they write a
a day in your life. What five actions do you
paragraph about something they
want to show in the video? Tell a partner.
succeeded in learning.

WARM-UP 5 min
On the board, write the title of the
promote education and leadership
WARM-UP VIDEO
unit, My Life. Ask students to call
opportunities for Afghan students.
Warm-Up 3–5 min
out any words connected with their
It was cofounded by a young
Write Afghanistan in the middle of
life. As this might be the first lesson
Afghan woman, Shabana Basijthe board and ask students what
of the course, encourage students
Rasikh. For many years, it was
they know about the country. Write
to say any words connected with
© National Geographic Learning
illegal for girls to go to school in
down any words they say. When
places they live, free-time activities,
Afghanistan. Shabana was lucky
you have five or six words, explain
family and friends, etc. The idea is
because her father believed girls
that you are going to show a video
to relax students and to show that
should be educated and, he sent
about a school in Afghanistan.
their ideas are always welcome.
his daughters to a secret school.
About the video
Look at the photo. Answer the
While studying at college in the
The School of Leadership,
questions. 5 min
US, she set up SOLA to help
Afghanistan (SOLA), a boarding
Ask students to read the two
Afghan women be able to study.
school for Afghan girls and young
questions and answer them
After graduating, she returned to
women, was founded in 2008.
individually or in pairs. Then ask
Kabul to continue her work with
SOLA is an Afghan- and
some students to share their
SOLA and advocating education
US-registered non-profit
answers with the class.
for girls and women internationally.
organization whose aim is to
2 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 1

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 2 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 33 ────────

TEACHING TIP: Using English
videos

Remind students to look at what
is happening around the person
who is talking in a video: where
the person is, what objects or
other people there are, what the
other people are doing. Noticing
these aspects will help students
understand the context of what
they are listening to, and therefore
People talk and laugh
at the Bottletree Cafe in
help them understand what is
Alabama, US.
being said.

A Watch a video about a day
in the life of Shabana Basij-
Rasikh and her students in
Afghanistan. Number these
actions (1–5) in the order you
see them. 5 min
Before showing the video,
allow time for students to read
the five sentences and check
they understand that they
need to number them in the
order they see them. Note that
when students watch a video
for the first time, they often
panic because of the level
of the spoken language, so
emphasize that they only need
to watch the video to do this
exercise; they don’t need to
listen. Play the video and then
check their answers.

B Read the sentences and then
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
/ Make introductions    / Talk about classes and lessons
watch the video again. Write
/ Ask questions about other people’s lives    / Describe something you learned to do
the missing words. 10 min
Before watching the video
again, you could put students
in pairs and ask them to read
also put them into small groups
the sentences and try to guess
EXTRA VIDEO
of three. Ask them to plan
what words might be missing.
VOCABULARY
a video called “My Life” by
You could also answer any
siblings
writing down the actions they
questions about unknown
will show in the video. These
words in the sentences. Play
responsible
© National Geographic Learning
actions could be written down
the video again and then
priority
as phrases or full sentences.
check their answers.
global citizens
For example, Getting up and
brushing my teeth, having
lucky
C Imagine you are making a
breakfast, going to school by
similar video about a day in
empowerment
bus. Monitor students or the
your life. What five actions do
groups and make suggestions
privileged
you want to show in the video?
where necessary. At the end,
initiate (from within)
Tell a partner. 10–15 min
ask each student to tell a
Students could plan their video
serve (your country)
partner or join two groups and
on their own but, to encourage
have them read their actions
speaking practice, you could
aloud.
Teacher’s Book UNIT 1 | 3

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 3 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 34 ────────

1A PEOPLE

VOCABULARY

A Mario is describing people in his life. Complete the sentences with the words in blue.
classmate coworker / colleague friend girlfriend neighbor

friend
1. “My name’s Mario, and this is Jason. He’s my best .
We met when we were in elementary school, and we often spend our
WORD BANK
free time together.”
good
close
classmate
2. “Lei is my at City College. We have two classes
We’re friends.
best
together. We sometimes say hello, but I don’t know her very well.”
old
3. “I’m working part time in an office these days, and Julia is my
They’re my next-door
coworker / colleague
neighbors.
there. She’s in a different department, but
sometimes we work together.”
neighbor
4. “David is my . We live on the same street.”
girlfriend
5. “I met Sally at City College last year. She’s my .
We got along well right away, and now we’re going out.”

B Work in pairs. Answer the questions.
1. Do you know everyone in your English class? Who don’t you know very well?
2. Which people in your life do you get along well with? Do you spend your free time together?

C Look at the words in blue and think of people in your life. On a piece of paper, write People I
Know at the top of the page. List five people and write a sentence or two about each one.

D Tell a partner about the people in your life.
Sergio is my friend. We
met in class last year.

An elementary school in
Shenzhen, China. Elementary
school is usually for ages 5–11.

© National Geographic Learning

4 | UNIT 1

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 4 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 35 ────────

that everyone gets to know each other in the class.
1A PEOPLE
If you are teaching online, you can put students in
new pairs by using the breakout rooms. Note also that
VOCABULARY
we often need to have one group of three students
because we don’t have even numbers in the class,
WARM-UP 5 min
so make sure you vary the pairs so it isn’t always the
Tell students to work in pairs and look at the words
same students having to work as a group of three.
for different people in blue in A. Ask them to define
each word and give an example of someone from
C Look at the words in blue and think of people
their own life. For example, “Luis is my classmate.
in your life. On a piece of paper, write People I
We have all our classes together.”
Know at the top of the page. List five people and
Afterwards, ask a few students to share their
write a sentence or two about each one. 10 min
definitions and people with the class. Use the
Point out the adjectives for describing friends
opportunity to correct any of the definitions and
in the Word Bank. Then model the exercise by
make sure everyone understands what they mean.
writing the names of some of the people you
know on the board. For each person, tell the class
something about that person and write a sentence
A Mario is describing people in his life. Complete
on the board next to their name. Have students
the sentences with the words in blue. 10 min
tell you what your relationship with that person is,
As students read about the people Mario knows,
using the new vocabulary and word partnerships,
encourage them to guess the meaning of any
and add it to your sentence on the board. Then
new words from context and complete the
have students write a list of the people they know
blanks with a word from the box. When checking
and sentences about each person. Monitor and
the answers, ask students to read the whole
help with ideas and vocabulary as necessary.
sentence aloud with the missing word. Help with
Remind students to use the new vocabulary and
any pronunciation problems where needed.
the words in the Word Bank as needed.

LANGUAGE TIP
D Tell a partner about the people in your life.
15–20 min
Coworker and co-worker are both acceptable
spellings.
Put students in pairs and have them tell each
other about the people on their lists. Monitor and
School can be used to refer to college and
provide help as necessary; make sure students
university, as well as the lower levels of education
are using the new vocabulary appropriately.
(elementary school, etc.)
Note that students might also want to know more
Departments refers to the different areas of a
words for describing people they know, so you
company or college; for example, the sales
may need to provide some of the words shown
department, the English Department.
below. At the end, call on several students to tell
the class about two people their partner knows.

B Work in pairs. Answer the questions. 5 min
MORE WORDS: People we know
The questions in B reuse the phrases in blue
spend time together, don’t know (her) very
colleague, client, customer, associate, contact,
well, work together, and get along well. So,
partner
before students ask them, you could check
fellow student, teammate, roommate
that students understand the meaning of
ex-boyfriend, ex-girlfriend, fiancé, fiancée
these phrases and give answers for yourself to
demonstrate use of the phrases. When teaching
neighbor, family, relative, relation (close
these kinds of phrases, make sure students are
relation, distant relation), in-law
learning them as phrases and not as separate
© National Geographic Learning
words.
EXTRA! Write about people you know
20–30 min
Put students into pairs and have them take turns
asking and answering the questions.
Tell students to write a paragraph giving more
details about the people they talked about in D.
Students should describe specifically when and
TEACHING TIP: Pair work
how often they see these people. Tell students to
When we ask students to work in pairs, it’s natural
use three to four of the blue vocabulary words on
(and practical) for students to turn to the person
the page. Then students can share their paragraphs
next to them. But try to vary this from time to time
in small groups by either swapping their writing or
and have students work with someone new. This is
reading the paragraphs aloud.
especially important at the beginning of a course so

Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson A | 4a

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 5 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 36 ────────

declarative sentence is changed to a question by
LISTENING
adding a word or phrase. Other examples of words
used to create tag questions are do you, are you,
WARM-UP 5 min
and isn’t it. Tag questions are often used to confirm
Elicit key words discussed in prior exercises that
information, which is the case in number 3.
define relationships, such as family, neighbor,
classmate, and coworker, and write them on the
board. Call on volunteers to describe a person they
C Listen for gist. Listen to the conversations. Write
know who falls under each category.
the number of the conversation (1, 2, or 3)
that goes with each photo. 4 10–15 min
PRONUNCIATION TIP: Stressed words
Have students look at the photos and say where
the people are and what they are doing. Have
It is important to help students see that stressed
them guess what the relationships are in each
words can carry the meaning in English. Therefore, if
photo. Play the first conversation and pause.
they stress the wrong word in a sentence or question,
Tell students to write number 1 on the photo of
it can change the focus of the question (as they will
the people who they heard talking in the audio.
see in the examples in A and B). Being aware of this
Then continue the audio. Check answers with the
will help them both in their understanding of spoken
class. Ask students which words helped them
English and in their own production.
find the correct answers.

Listen for gist. Remind students that when they
A PRONUNCIATION: Question stress Listen.
first listen to audio, it is often helpful to focus on
Notice how the answer to the question is different
understanding the general idea, and not worry
depending on the stressed word. Then listen
about details. It is motivating for students, and
again and repeat. 2 5 min
therefore confidence-building, to realize that they
Have students read the conversations. Then
can understand the general idea even if they
play the audio and have students repeat. Next,
haven’t understood everything they heard.
have students identify which word is stressed in
each conversation. Help them understand how
D Listen for details. Read the sentences about
the different stress changes the meaning of the
each conversation. Then listen again and circle
question. The word that is stressed is the one
the correct answers. 4 10 min
that the speaker is asking about. Play the audio
Tell students to look at the photo they labeled
again and have students repeat. Point out that in
number 1. Then read aloud 1a and 1b. Ask
number 1, speaker A stresses boyfriend to ask
students to choose the words that make each
if a person is speaker B’s boyfriend or not. In
statement about photo number 1 true. Have
number 2, the stress on your means that speaker
students read the remaining sentences, then
A knows the person is somebody’s boyfriend, but
play the audio again for them to circle the correct
isn’t sure if it is speaker B. In number 3, speaker
answers. Check the answers with the class.
A is asking if a specific person in a group is
speaker B’s boyfriend.
Listen for details. Remind students that they do
not need to hear and understand everything in
B PRONUNCIATION: Question stress Say the
order to understand specific details. Encourage
three sentences and responses. Then listen for
them to get into the habit of identifying key words
the stressed word in each sentence. Choose the
to listen for before they listen.
best answer. 3 10 min
First, have students read the conversations and
E Work in pairs. Write a conversation between two
then play the audio. Tell students to underline the
people similar to the conversations from C and
stressed words and then compare their answers
D. Try to use all the expressions in the box. Then
with a partner’s. Play the audio again and tell
perform your conversation for another pair.
students to choose the best response according
10–15 min
© National Geographic Learning
to the word that is stressed in the first part of
Put students in pairs to create their
the conversation. Have students compare their
conversations. Monitor and help students who
answers with a partner’s. Check answers with
are having difficulty with ideas and using all
the class and ask students to explain why they
the expressions in the box. Allow students time
chose each response.
to practice their conversation. Remind them to
look at each other as they speak. When pairs
TEACHING TIP: Tag questions
are ready, join pairs to make groups of four and
have them perform their conversations for each
Point out the question in number 3. When a word
other. Call on one or two pairs to perform their
is added at the end of a sentence, like right is
conversation for the class.
here, this is called a tag question. This is when a

5a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 6 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 37 ────────

LISTENING

A PRONUNCIATION: Question stress Listen. Notice how the answer to the question
is different depending on the stressed word. Then listen again and repeat. 2
3. A: Is he your boyfriend?
1. A: Is he your boyfriend?
B: No, he is.
B: No, we’re just friends.

2. A: Is he your boyfriend?
B: No, he’s going out with Maria.

B PRONUNCIATION: Question stress Say the three sentences and responses. Then
listen for the stressed word in each sentence. Choose the best answer. 3
3. I think his best friend lives next door, right?
1. Are you a student at City College?
a. No, I think it’s his colleague.
a. No, I work there.
b. No, I think he lives down the street.
b. No, I go to Essex College.
2. Are you her classmate?
a. No, my brother is.
b. No, I’m her coworker.

C Listen for gist. Listen to the conversations. Write the number of the conversation
(1, 2, or 3) that goes with each photo. 4

n3  n1 n2

D Listen for details. Read the sentences about each conversation. Then listen
again and circle the correct answers. 4

3. a. They know / don’t know each other.
1. a. They are / aren’t dating now.
b. They are / aren’t classmates now.
b. They are / aren’t friends now.
2. a. They are / aren’t friends.
b. They know / don’t know each other well.

© National Geographic Learning
E Work in pairs. Write a conversation between two people similar to the
conversations from C and D. Try to use all the expressions in the box.
Then perform your conversation for another pair.

Do you know . . .? Is he / she your . . .? Nice to meet you. We’re friends.
Excuse me, are you . . .? Is this your first day? We met . . .

Lesson A | 5

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 7 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 38 ────────

When you first
meet someone, do
you always shake
hands? If not, what
do you do instead?

SPEAKING

Junko: Hey, Ricardo. Nice to meet you.
A Listen to the conversations. Which one is
more informal? In each conversation, who is
Ricardo: Yeah, you, too.
meeting for the first time? 5
Conversation 2
Conversation 1 is more informal. Mr. Otani and Andre are meeting
Ricardo and Junko are meeting    for the first time.
Conversation 1
Mr. Otani: Morning, Miriam.
for the first time.
Maria: Hi, Junko.
Miriam: Good morning, Mr. Otani. Oh,
Junko: Hi, Maria. It’s good to see you
Mr. Otani, I’d like you to meet Andre
again! How are you?
Garcia. He started working here
yesterday. Andre, Mr. Otani is our
Maria: Fine. How about you?
VP of Sales.
Junko: Pretty good.
Mr. Otani: Nice to meet you, Andre.
Maria: Oh, and this is my friend Ricardo.
Andre: It’s very nice to meet you, too, Mr. Otani.
We both go to City University.

B Read and practice the conversations in
SPEAKING STRATEGY
6
pairs.
Introducing a person to    Responding to
someone else    introductions
C Work in groups of three. Follow the
It’s (very) nice to
Mr. Otani, I’d like to
formal
steps below.
meet you.
introduce you to Andre.
(It’s) nice / good to
1. Student A: Choose a famous person
Mr. Otani, I’d like you to
meet you, too.
meet Andre.
to be. Write down your identity on a
piece of paper and give it to Student B.
Nice / Good to
Junko, this is Ricardo.
2. Student B: Read the identity of
meet you.
Junko, meet Ricardo.
informal
Student A. Then introduce Student
You, too.
Junko, Ricardo.
A to Student C formally. Use the
© National Geographic Learning
Asking for someone’s name again
Speaking Strategy to help you.
I’m sorry, I’m terrible with names.
I’m sorry, I’ve forgotten your name.
3. Student C: Respond to the introduction.
4. Switch roles and repeat steps 1–3.

D Now introduce the “famous friends” you met in C to your other classmates.
Use a formal or informal style.

Ana, I’d like you to    It’s nice to meet
meet Leonardo    you, Leo.
DiCaprio.

6 | UNIT 1

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 8 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 39 ────────

TEACHING TIP: Reading conversations aloud
SPEAKING
Although reading a written conversation aloud isn’t
WARM-UP 5 min
that common in day-to-day life (except if you’re
actors rehearsing for a play), for students it can be
Write on the board, Introducing someone. Ask, In what
very reassuring and it builds confidence with new
situations or places do we often meet people for the
language. As your students become more familiar with
first time? And in what situations do we introduce one
this type of practice, you can vary it by asking them
friend to another? Then ask students, When you meet
to read it with a certain type of emotion; for example,
someone for the first time, what kinds of questions do
one character can read it as if they are angry about
you ask them? Discuss the responses.
something or extremely happy about something.

TEACHING TIP: Question types
C Work in groups of three. Follow the steps below.
When you ask students questions, try to ask
10 min
open-ended and short-answer questions as well
Put students into groups of three, and assign the
as Yes / No questions. This will maximize students’
roles of A, B, and C. As students complete steps
opportunities to practice language when they answer.
1–3, walk around, listening for the introductions
and helping groups stay on task. Each group
A Listen to the conversations. Which one is more
should rotate roles so everyone plays each role.
informal? In each conversation, who is meeting
for the first time? 5 10 min
D Now introduce the “famous friends” you met in C
Tell students that they will read and hear two
to your other classmates. Use a formal or informal
conversations and they need to decide which
style. 5 min
two people are meeting for the first time in each
Explain that students will introduce their “famous
conversation. Play the audio. Call on students
friends” to classmates. Ask for volunteers to
to answer the questions. Then ask students
read the conversation aloud using the speech
which words and phrases helped them find the
bubbles, inserting the names of famous people
answers.
they reviewed in the prior exercise. Finally,
ask groups to turn to neighbors and use the
CULTURE TIP: Terms of respect
conversation to introduce their “famous friends.”
Groups can rotate a few times to practice the
Explain that in English-speaking cultures, terms of
introductions.
respect include titles for people with certain jobs
(such as Dr. Lopez or Judge Li) or those who are
older than others in the group (Mr. Hansen or Mrs.
CULTURE TIP: Body language
Fernandez). People can also be introduced with a
In some cultures, there is specific body language
term of respect and their job title, such as Mr. Otani
that accompanies introductions. With the class,
is our V.P. of Sales. V.P. is a vice president, a hightalk about the titles, phrases, and body language
ranking executive position. Commonly used titles
used in local introductions. How do introductions
are Mr., Mrs., Ms., Miss, and Dr. Remind students
differ between very young people and those who
that we use these titles with last names, not first
are much older? What is considered polite or rude?
names. Mrs. Teresa Valero and Mrs. Valero are
Ask students to share things they have heard about
correct; Mrs. Teresa is incorrect.
other cultures.

SPEAKING STRATEGY 6 3 min
EXTRA! Correct the introduction 10 min
Play the audio of the phrases in the Speaking
This exercise helps students practice using phrases
Strategy box so students can listen and read.
for introductions. Divide the class into two teams (A
Draw attention to the importance of intonation in
and B) and call on a student from Team A. Choose
both the formal and informal expressions. Play the
© National Geographic Learning
a sentence from this page used to introduce and
expressions again and this time students can listen
respond. Say the sentence, but say it with one error.
and repeat.
For example, say, Mr. Otani, I would like to introduce
to Andres.
B Read and practice the conversations in pairs. 3 min
Ask the student to listen and guess the error
Have students work in pairs and read the two
(missing you after introduce). If he or she gets the
conversations aloud. Then have them swap roles
answer correct, Team A gets a point. If not, Team
and read them again.
B gets a turn. Say 10 sentences in total with errors.
After all sentences have been corrected, the team
with the most points wins.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson A | 6a

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 9 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 40 ────────

GRAMAR TIP: The present continuous
GRAMMAR
The main use of the present continuous is to talk about
WARM-UP 5 min
events in progress at the time of speaking (the use
taught in this unit). It is also used to talk about repeated
On the board, label two columns Every Day and Right
temporary events (I usually work in the afternoon, but
Now. Elicit examples for each column. Prompt by
this month I’m working nights.) and processes of change
asking, What do you do every morning? What are you
(The national economy is getting better.). The present
doing right now? Provide examples as necessary,
continuous can also be used to talk about future time,
such as Every morning, I drive to work, and I am
with events that are planned: I’m leaving on vacation
talking. Write your examples and students’ responses
tomorrow. Along with the other continuous forms, the
in the correct column, focusing students’ attention on
present continuous is not used with verbs of thinking
the verb forms.
and sensing: It smells good, not It’s smelling good.

A Read the Unit 1, Lesson A Grammar Reference in
B Read the sentences below. Circle the simple present
the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do the
verbs and underline the present continuous verbs.
exercises below. 20–30 min
Then match each sentence to its use on the right.
Go over the explanations and examples in the
10–15 min
chart. Then have students identify simple present
Go over the directions and the example with
and present continuous verbs in the columns from
students, making sure they understand they need
the Warm-Up. Elicit more examples from students
to do three things: identify simple present verbs,
of temporary and extended present usage. Ask a
identify present continuous verbs, and match
question like, How many classes are you taking
sentences and use. Have students complete the
this semester? If students are away from home,
exercise individually first and then check their
ask, Where are you living at the moment? and so
answers with a partner’s. Check answers with the
on. The grammar chart in the Grammar Reference
class.
gives usage notes, questions, and additional
forms, expanding on the information in the chart
on page 7.
GRAMMAR TIP: Verbs that are not used in the
present continuous
TEACHING OPTION: The flipped classroom
Some verbs should generally not be used in present
continuous forms. These verbs involve emotions and
To open up time for in-class communicative tasks,
senses. Examples include see, hear, agree, believe,
assign the Grammar Reference exercises in the
like, and love. These verbs can express temporary
appendix as homework.
thoughts or feelings, but unlike other temporary
The next time class meets:
actions, these verbs are expressed in the simple
present.
1. Review the simple present vs. the present
continuous in the Grammar Reference.

2. Go through the exercises students did for
C Complete the questions in the simple present or
homework; present new examples and reinforce
the present continuous. Use the verbs in the box.
points as needed. Take questions from students.
10–15 min
3. Turn back to page 7 and do the communicative
Introduce using the simple present and present
exercises there, starting with C.
continuous in questions. Write this pair of questions
on the board: A) Why do you study at this school?
B) Why are you studying for the test right now?
TEACHING TIP: Include comparative examples
Underline the phrases do you study and are you
studying. Ask a volunteer which question is in the
When students learn a new verb form, list the form in a
present continuous. Students can complete the
column alongside other forms they have previously
questions individually, and then check the answers
seen—in this case, the simple present. This allows
© National Geographic Learning
as a class.
students to see how the current form compares to
those they already know. In addition, provide sentence
pairs that show the new and old forms in examples
D Now take turns asking and answering the questions
side by side. This helps students understand the
in C with a partner. 5–10 min
formation, meaning, and use of the new form.
Assign students to pairs. First, one student
should ask each question, while his or her partner
answers. Then, partners should change roles.
Review responses with the class by calling on
students and asking one of the questions.

7a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 10 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 41 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 1, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
exercises. Then do the exercises below.

THE SIMPLE PRESENT VS. THE PRESENT CONTINUOUS

I always take a shower in the    Use the simple present to talk about habits,
morning.    schedules, and facts.
She’s taking a shower right now.    Use the present continuous to talk about
Can she call you back?    actions happening right now.

I live in Tokyo.    The present continuous can show that a
At the moment, I’m living in Tokyo.    situation is more temporary.

Do you study English?    Use the present continuous to talk about
What are you studying this term?    actions happening in the extended present
(nowadays).

With the simple present, we often use adverbs of frequency, such as always,
sometimes, and never. With the present continuous, we often use time expressions
such as at the moment, right now, and currently.

B Read the sentences below. Circle the simple present verbs and underline the
present continuous verbs. Then match each sentence to its use on the right.
b
1. Sophia is my classmate.
a. describing a routine
e
2. She’s living at home at the moment.
b. stating a truth or fact
a
3. She always arrives at school at 8:00.
c. happening right now
d
4. She’s taking a science class this term.
d. happening in the extended present
c
5. We’re studying for a test now.
e. suggesting a temporary situation

C Complete the questions in the simple present or the
do eat have study take talk
present continuous. Use the verbs in the box.
are you studying    4. A: How many brothers and sisters
1. A: Why English now?
do you have
?
B: I need it for work.
Are you taking    B: Four brothers and one sister.
2. A: two classes this term?
do you do
5. A: What on the weekends?
B: Yes, I am. Two business classes.
B: I relax and hang out with friends.
do you eat
3. A: When breakfast?
are you talking
6. A: Who to right now?
B: Around 7:00, usually.
B: Alex.

D Now take turns asking and answering the questions in C with a partner.
Why are you studying    I’m preparing for the TOEFL because I want
© National Geographic Learning
English now?    to study business at Nanyang Technological
University next year.

Nanyang Technological
University, Singapore

Lesson A | 7

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 11 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 42 ────────

Bruce Pascal collects
toy cars. He has over
3,500 of them!

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Take a piece of paper and cut it into five strips. On each strip, write a sentence about one of the
following items.

• one of your daily routines
I always get up at
5 am.
• a general fact about you
I collect toy
• an unusual fact about you
cars.
• an activity you are doing these days
I’m learning to play
the guitar these days.
• why you are studying English at the moment

B Give your sentences to your teacher. He or she will mix up the sentences and give you five new
ones. Prepare a question for each sentence.

For example:

Sentence: I always get up at 5 am.

Your question: Do you always get up at 5 am?

Do you collect toy
C Stand up and talk to your classmates. Ask your questions
cars?    No, I don’t.
from B to find out who wrote each sentence.
I collect sneakers.

Yes, I do! I have
D Introduce one of your classmates to the class and
around 200.
tell an interesting fact you learned about him or her.
© National Geographic Learning
1A GOALS Now I can . . .

Make introductions    1. Yes, I can.
2. Mostly, yes.
Ask questions about other people’s
lives    3. Not yet.

8 | UNIT 1

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 12 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 43 ────────

but only share the sentences among the members
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
of the smaller groups. Then they have to work with
the students standing closely around them.
WARM-UP 3 min
Tell students to look at the photo and read the caption.
Ask, What is unusual about Bruce Pascal? The answer
D Introduce one of your classmates to the class and
is that he collects toy cars and has over 3,500. Next,
tell an interesting fact you learned about him or
ask if any students collect anything. If anyone says
her. 10 min
they do, find out how many they have.
Call out the name of a student and ask students
who spoke with this classmate to share something
interesting about him or her. Try to call out each
A Take a piece of paper and cut it into five strips.
student’s name so that classmates learn at least
On each strip, write a sentence about one of the
two or three things about every student.
following items. 10–15 min
Read the instructions and illustrate them by
ONLINE OPTION
showing everyone a piece of paper and cutting
If you are teaching online, here is an alternative
(or tearing) it into strips. Also, be prepared to
way to follow the exercises in Active English. Tell
clarify the difference in meaning between routine
students to work alone and write five Yes / No
and fact (“something that you do every day” vs
questions to find out the five pieces of information
“something that is always true”) if necessary.
in A. For example, Do you get up at 7 am? Are
Tell students to complete the first item
you 18 years old? Are you doing much exercise
individually. Then ask them to share their
these days? Then put students into breakout rooms
responses aloud to check that everyone
as pairs to interview each other with their five
understands the task. As they write answers to
questions. They should write down their partner’s
the remaining items, walk around the room to
answers and any extra information. Then, after
spot check students’ work for accuracy, and help
10–15 minutes, they return to the main room and
with ideas and vocabulary. Provide corrective
take turns introducing their partner to the rest of
feedback when an answer indicates a student
the class, telling one or two interesting facts they
has misunderstood a word or question.
learned. Or, put two pairs into a breakout room
so they work in groups of four and introduce their
partners to each other.
B Give your sentences to your teacher. He or she
will mix up the sentences and give you five new
Diagnostics
ones. Prepare a question for each sentence.
Check students’ competencies as follows:
10 min
• Are students able to form and use the simple
Collect all the strips of paper, mix them up
present and present continuous correctly in their
and redistribute them so everyone has 5 new
sentences?
sentences. Note that students will need time
• Are they able to write Yes / No questions with the
to read them and they may have questions
two forms?
because they can’t read someone else’s
handwriting or don’t understand a word someone
• Are they using expressions from the Speaking
else has used. Also be prepared to help out
Strategy and Useful Expressions to introduce
as students prepare five questions about the
someone?
sentences either starting with Do you . . .? (for
• Are they using the third person form of the
the simple present) or Are you . . .? (for the
simple present and present continuous to tell an
present continuous). Make sure they are writing
interesting fact about another student?
questions to which the answer will be yes or no.

1A
GOALS
C Stand up and talk to your classmates. Ask your
questions from B to find out who wrote each
Review students’ self-assessment in the
© National Geographic Learning
sentence. 10–15 min
goals box. Point out to students where
Ideally, use a clear space in the classroom or
they learned these skills in the unit. If they
move some tables so everyone can stand and
rated their ability below Yes, I can, they can
move around. When students find someone who
turn back to those pages and review the
answers Yes, I do or Yes, I am, they write the
exercises.
person’s name on that piece of paper.
Make introductions: Vocabulary,
page 4, C–D; Speaking, page 6, A–D;
LARGE-CLASS OPTION
Active English, page 8, C–D
The class exercise in C might be impractical
Ask questions about other people’s lives:
in larger classes, so you might want to divide
Listening, page 5; Grammar, page 7, C–D
the class into smaller groups (of seven or eight
students). Follow the same stages in A, B, and C,
Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson A | 8a

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 13 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 44 ────────

VOCABULARY TIP: Lesson and practice
1B LESSONS LEARNED
Lesson can refer to a class or tutorial, but also to
something you learn through experience:
VOCABULARY
I really enjoyed my guitar lesson today. We learned
WARM-UP 5 min
a new song.
Write the word Classes in the middle of the board
I took Chinese classes last year. It was very difficult
and ask the class to call out some types of classes
and I had to study really hard, but now I can speak
(or subjects) they can study at school. (See a list of
a little. It was a lesson in not giving up!
possible subjects below that you could also present.)
Then ask students, Which are your favorite subjects?
Practice is an organized activity with other people,
Or with older students who have left school, ask,
but also something you can do by yourself:
Which were your favorite subjects? As each student
I met my team at the field for soccer practice.
says their favorite, ask them to say why.
I practiced playing piano at home last night.

MORE WORDS: Lessons, subjects, classes
Art, Computer Studies, Economics, English,
C Ask and answer the questions with a partner.
Geography, History, Literature, Math,
10–15 min
Physical Education, Science
Before starting this exercise, you could ask
students to read the questions and say which
verb forms are used. This will review the
CULTURE TIP: Ending the school year
grammar from Lesson A because the questions
How students end school and their studies varies
in 1, 2, and 3 use the present continuous and the
around the world. The text on the page describes
questions in 4 are in the simple present.
the Last Bell ceremony, which traditionally takes
Put students into pairs and have them ask
place in Ukraine and other countries that were once
each other the questions. Monitor their answers
part of the Soviet Union, such as Russia, Belarus,
for correct use and understanding of the new
Estonia, and Georgia. Prom is popular in countries
vocabulary. You could also note their use of the
such as the US, Canada, Australia, and New
present continuous and simple present in their
Zealand, and is becoming more common in other
answers. Make notes of good use of the new
countries. It involves students dressing formally
language and any common errors, and share
and attending a dance. In many regions, including
them with the class.
South America and parts of Asia, schools also
celebrate the end of their school life with parties
and graduation balls.
TEACHING TIP: Checking answers

There are many ways to check answers to exercises
A Read the text about the Last Bell ceremony.
in the Student Book and Workbook.
Where and when is it? Why do students
• Instructor reads the answers aloud, students
celebrate it? 10 min
check their work—the fastest way, but allows the
Encourage students to read this text on their
least student involvement.
own and not worry about any new words at
this stage. They should focus only on getting
• Instructor calls on students to give their
a general understanding of the text in order to
answers—also fast, but may make students
answer the questions. Have students compare
anxious.
their answers in pairs before you take answers
• Students check their answers from an answer
from the whole class.
key when they are finished—allows students to
work at their own pace, but requires preparation.
B Complete the sentences with the blue words
• Students correct each other’s work—gives
from A. Then check your answers with a partner.
© National Geographic Learning
students more responsibility, but they may not
10 min
correct all mistakes.
Point out the blue words in the text in A. You
could clarify any of the meanings if you think
• Volunteers each write the answer to one question
students will find them difficult to use. Or ask brief
on the board—gives the class an opportunity
questions to reinforce students’ comprehension
to work with common errors, but uses a lot of
and memory of each word. For example, ask,
class time.
What is another way to say I’m doing well in
• Instructor corrects outside of class—an
class? (I’m getting good grades.) After reviewing
opportunity for detailed feedback, but requires a
the words, have students complete the exercise.
lot of work from the instructor.
Check answers together as a class. Give
students a chance to ask questions.

9a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 14 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 45 ────────

1B LESSONS LEARNED

VOCABULARY

A Read the text about the Last Bell ceremony. Where and when is it? Why do students celebrate it?
In May, students around the world are taking their last classes and preparing for their final
exams, hoping to get good grades for college or a new job. Music and sports lessons also
end before summer break. When classes finish in countries such as Russia and Ukraine,
everyone meets at the Last Bell ceremony on May 25th. After, students celebrate with friends—
it’s their last chance to have fun together before they take their exams and either pass or fail!

In countries such as Russia and Ukraine on May 25th. Students celebrate the last day of classes before their exams.

B Complete the sentences with the blue words from A. Then check your answers with a partner.
preparing exams / exam
1. I can’t go out tonight. I’m for my final next week.
pass
2. If I study hard, I know I can the test!
WORD BANK
taking    classes
3. This term, I’m two computer science
have free time / fun
meet friends
at City University.
a class meets
meets
4. Our English class on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
take classes, exams,
(music / tennis) lessons
lessons
5. My piano aren’t long. They’re only 30 minutes.
take a(n) exam / test /
fail
class
6. I had to retake my math class. I don’t want to it again!
gets    grades
7. Tyler never studies, so he always bad .
have fun
8. After our exams, let’s go out and some !

C Ask and answer the questions with a partner.
1. What classes are you taking now? When do they meet?
2. Are you taking any music or sports lessons?
3. How are you doing in your classes? Are you getting good
grades?

4. How do you have fun? Do you meet friends after class?

Students play in a fountain after the
Last Bell ceremony in Kiev, Ukraine.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 9

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 15 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 46 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5 min
Have students look at the photo
of BLACK and read the caption.
Ask them to describe what he
is doing. Check that students
understand what a yo-yo is and
ask if anyone knows how to use
one. You could also ask if they
have heard of or seen Cirque du
Soleil, which is an international
circus well-known in many
different countries. As students
answer, provide any useful
vocabulary as necessary and
write it on the board.

A The title of the reading is part
of a longer expression: If at
first you don’t succeed, try, try
again. What do you think it
means? Is it good advice?
5–10 min
T R Y, T R Y
Have students read the
directions and the words in
the Word Bank. Then point out
A G A I N !
the title and ask students to
suggest what the expression
means. Once everyone
understands the expression,
At some point in our lives, we all fail at
life changed. At first, he couldn’t do any tricks,
ask if they think it is good
something. Maybe we don’t pass an important
but he didn’t give up. He watched videos and
exam or get good grades. Failure isn’t easy, but
worked hard for four years. At age eighteen, he
advice and also to say why or
when things are hard, try not to give up. You can
entered the World Yo-Yo Contest3 and won. He
why not.
was a world champion.4 Now he performs all
still find success—as these two personal stories
over the world.
show.
B Read for the main idea. Read
2. Lindsey Stirling is an American musician.
1. BLACK is a successful Japanese entertainer,1
the first paragraph of the text.
but as a teenager his life was very different. In
She mixes classical violin with dance music and
Choose the main idea. 5 min
school, he was quiet and shy, and other boys
hip-hop. As a child, her parents didn’t have a lot
bullied2 him. People often said to him, “Play
of money, so Lindsey could only take lessons
Make sure students read the
a sport!” but BLACK wasn’t good at sports.
part time. Despite this, she practiced a lot, and
first paragraph only and don’t
Then one day, BLACK bought a yo-yo and his
in high school she started writing her own music.
start reading the whole article
10 | UNIT 1
yet. Have them choose which
sentence (a–c) expresses
the main idea. Have students
compare their answer with
C Work in pairs. Read about
the questions about their
a partner’s, then check the
your person and answer the
person individually.
answer with the class.
questions. 5–10 min
Read for the main idea.
© National Geographic Learning
Go over the questions with the
TEACHING TIP: Jigsaw reading
Students can understand
class, then assign students
the main idea of a text even
Dividing a text up into sections
to pairs and have them read
if there are words they don’t
(as in C) and then having
about BLACK and Lindsey
understand. It is important for
students read different sections
Stirling, respectively. Point out
them to realize this and always
is called jigsaw reading.
the vocabulary definitions at
focus on getting a general
Students are assigned different
the bottom of page 11, and
idea of the text when they first
sections to read and then answer
remind students to underline
read, before focusing on trying
questions, complete part of a
words that are new and try to
to understand specific details.
chart, summarize the main points
guess their meaning from the
of a section, etc. They then join
context. Tell students to answer

10 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 16 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 47 ────────

another student, or students, who
have read the other part, or parts,
of the text. By sharing what they
A The title of the reading is part of a longer
understood from their section
expression: If at first you don’t succeed, try, try
with their partner or group, each
again. What do you think it means? Is it good
It means that it’s important to keep trying
student is then able to answer
advice?
In the Cirque du Soleil show    even when you fail.
all the questions, complete the
Kurios, BLACK does tricks
WORD BANK
whole chart, summarize the
with two yo-yos at once.
Opposites
main points of each section,
fail (v) succeed (v)
failure (n) success (n) successful (adj)
etc. This technique is effective
give up (quit) (v) keep trying (v)
because longer texts are made
more accessible in class, and
B Read for the main idea. Read the first paragraph
it provides an opportunity for
of the text. Choose the main idea.
meaningful communication—
a. Sometimes it’s best to give up.
students have a genuine reason
b. When you fail, don’t give up.
to talk to each other as they
c. Some successful people give up.
need each other’s information to
complete the task.
C Work in pairs. Read about your person and answer
the questions.

Student A: Read about BLACK. (Part 1)

Student B: Read about Lindsey Stirling. (Part 2)
D Summarize. Ask your partner
1. What is the person’s job?
the questions in C about his
2. What difficult things happened to the person?
or her person. Write down the
3. What finally happened? Was he or she
answers. Then, read about the
successful?
other person and check your
partner’s answers. If you are
D Summarize. Ask your partner the questions in C
unsure, see the answers on
about his or her person. Write down the answers.
Then read about the other person and check
page 211. 10 min
your partner’s answers. If you are unsure, see the
Go over the directions with the
answers on page 211.
class. As students ask and
answer the questions, tell them
ACADEMIC SKILL
Summarize
to use their own words when
After you read a text, try to summarize
Then at age twenty-three, Lindsey was
the most important information. Look for
they answer. Monitor, and
on a popular TV talent show. She did
the main idea in each paragraph and
well, but she didn’t win. However, she
help with simple past verbs
use the key words.

kept trying, and in time, she made an
as necessary. After pairs have
album and won an important music
finished speaking, they should
E Think about a time you failed at something. Take
award. Today, she has a very popular
read about the other person
some notes to answer the questions.
channel online. 7
and check that the notes they
1. What did you fail at?
1An entertainer is someone like an actor,
made are correct. Clarify any
2. Did you give up or try again?
musician, dancer, or singer.
vocabulary questions students
3. What did you learn from it?
2If someone bullies you, they try to hurt you or
make you afraid.
still have. Where possible,
3A contest is an event that people try to win.
F In pairs, ask and answer the questions in E.
4The winner of the contest is the champion.
have other students in the
class explain the vocabulary.
Lesson B | 11
Summarize. Tell students
to read the Academic Skill
box and make sure they
understand that when they
to questions. Instead, play it
F In pairs, ask and answer the
summarize, they should
afterwards, as it’s a great way for
questions in E. 5 min
give general and important
students to hear how all the words
With a very small class,
information rather than every
are pronounced in the text and
© National Geographic Learning
students could answer these
single fact they read.
it’s a chance for them to sit back,
questions by telling the whole
listen, read, and enjoy!
class. Otherwise, put students
TEACHING OPTION: Listen
in pairs to ask and answer the
and read 5 min
questions before asking one
E Think about a time you failed at
Every Lesson B reading text in
or two pairs to report back
something. Take some notes to
World Link comes with audio of
on what they found out about
answer the questions. 5 min
the reading so that students can
each other.
listen and read the text. Don’t
Have students work on their
play the audio when students are
own by reading the questions
trying to read and find answers
and thinking about a time they
failed something.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson B | 11

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 17 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 48 ────────

The Himalayan Mountains near the
village of Phortse in Nepal

LISTENING

A Look at the photo. What activity do you think people come to this place to learn?

B Listen to an interview. Where is the interviewer speaking from? Who does he
He is speaking from a village called Phortse in the Himalayan mountains of Nepal.
interview? 8
He interviews a student at the Khumbu Climbing Center.

8
C Listen for key words. Listen again and take notes about the school and its classes.

Khumbu Climbing Center, Phortse, Nepal
1. Name of school:
Adult
2. Type of students (age):
2003
3. Year the school started:
About 100
4. Number of students:
Climbing skills, first aid, English lessons
5. Types of classes:
Yes
6. Are there tests?
© National Geographic Learning9 hours
7. Length of typical day:

D Think critically. Work in pairs and choose a job or occupation (climber, teacher,
musician, etc.). Then follow the steps.

1. Imagine you have a school for people who want to learn this job. Make a list of the
types of classes you need to have—for example, language learning or business
management.

2. Present your list of classes to another pair, but do not say the job. Can they guess
what the job is?

12 | UNIT 1

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 18 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 49 ────────

Listen for key words. Remind students that
LISTENING
when they listen and take notes, it’s important to
listen for the key words and phrases. They need
WARM-UP 5 min
to try to ignore information that is less important.
Write Nepal on the board. Ask students, What do
When they are being asked to listen for words
you know about this country? Write on the board
relating to particular areas, such as the name
any words or phrases that students suggest, such
of the school or the age of the students, they
as, It’s in Asia, It’s between China and India, It has
should try to predict the type of language they
the Himalayan mountains and Mount Everest, The
need to listen for, such as names, numbers, or
capital is Kathmandu. Explain that students are
years. before they start listening. This skill is
going to learn about a type of school in Nepal.
especially important to apply when students take
exams that test listening.
A Make predictions. Look at the photo. What
EXPANSION: Interview your partner
activity do you think people come to this place to
10–15 min
learn? 3 min
Tell students to work in pairs and take turns
Have students study the photo and read the
interviewing each other about their current school
caption. Then ask a student for the answer.
or a school they attended in the past. They need to
Make predictions. Remind students that
ask seven questions that find out the information in
guessing about the topic they are going to hear
the table in C. You may want to copy the table onto
about before they listen helps them activate
the board for students to refer to.
vocabulary and language structures they might
Before the interviews, students should prepare the
hear. This will help them understand more when
questions they will need, either using the simple
they listen.
present or the simple past, depending on whether
they are asking about a current or past school.
TEACHING TIP: Personalization
When they are ready with their questions, they
When we ask questions that personalize the content
interview each other and take notes about their
of a lesson, or we encourage students to use the
seven answers. If you are doing this exercise online,
new language in a sentence that is personal to
students can work together in breakout rooms.
them, it makes language learning more memorable
and motivating. Personalization can take place
at any stage of a lesson, from the first Warm-Up
D Think critically. Work in pairs and choose a job
exercise to the final exercise on the page.
or occupation (climber, teacher, musician, etc.).
Then follow the steps. 10–15 min
In step 1, put students in pairs and tell them to
B Listen to an interview. Where is the interviewer
choose one type of occupation. Then, have them
speaking from? Who does he interview? 8
brainstorm the types of classes needed. One
5 min
way to approach this is for students to think of
Before you play the audio, ask students to think
the type of knowledge and skills a person needs
about what they will hear by asking, How many
to do a certain job and then list these before
people do you think you will hear in the listening?
deciding on the names of the actual classes.
(2 people) Who do you think the interviewer will
In step 2, join pairs into groups of four. When
speak to from the school? (Maybe a student or
presenting, remind students not to say the actual
one of the teachers.) Then play the interview and
name of the job, but only to list the classes so
have students write down the answers. Finally,
the other pair have to guess the job.
have students work in small groups to compare
what they think they heard before checking the
Think critically. Remind students that thinking
answers as a class.
critically involves gathering the necessary
© National Geographic Learninginformation to complete a task.
C Listen for key words. Listen again and take
notes about the school and its classes. 8
10 min

Allow time for students to read what they are
being asked to listen for. Talk about each item
(1–7) and discuss the types of words that might
be important in the interview. For example, to
answer question 2, they need to listen out for
ages. In question 3, they need to listen for a
specific year, and in 4, for a number, and so on.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson B | 12a

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 19 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 50 ────────

Past. List about 15 common verbs under Simple
GRAMMAR
Present, and direct students to fill in the forms under
Simple Past. Check them together. Recommend
WARM-UP 5 min
that students keep the list handy. When they need
Briefly review the simple past by discussing
to use either form in the future, refer them to the
activities that students enjoyed in prior school
chart to either find the verb in question, or record
years. Model a few examples of activities you
new verbs that are not already listed.
enjoyed in complete sentences. On the board, write
statements such as, I played sports, I read books,
I studied a lot, I had three close friends. Underline
EXPANSION: Write a profile 15 min
the verbs and identify each as regular or irregular.
Students can write a brief profile (like the one in B)
Next, go around the room so each student can
about themselves, someone they know, or a famous
share one activity they enjoyed in the past. Write
person. They should include interesting facts and
their examples on the board.
details and write in the simple past.

TEACHING TIP: Recycle and review
C Read the text about Steve Jobs again. Write
Vary the ways you recycle and review what students
down three Yes / No and three Wh- questions in
have learned. During warm-ups, move quickly and
the simple past about the information in the text.
do exercises, such as labeling parts of speech,
10 min
choosing or creating the correct verb form, fill in
To make the aim of this exercise clear, you
the blank, true or false, and others like this. Each of
can create one Yes / No question about the
these question types can be used to quiz students
Steve Jobs profile together as a class. Remind
on grammar points or vocabulary.
students how to form the Yes / No question
by referring to the upper part of the grammar
GRAMMAR TIP: Simple past
chart in A. Then take suggestions for a Yes / No
question and write it on the board; for example,
The simple past is used for facts, routines, and
Did Steve graduate from college? Was he smart?
actions completed in the past.
Now tell students to work on their own and make
six questions. If you want to make sure that
A Read the Unit 1, Lesson B Grammar Reference
students write different questions, you could tell
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
half the students to write questions about the first
the exercises below. 20–30 min
paragraph and the other half to write questions
Go over the explanations and examples in the
about the second paragraph.
chart. Ask students questions using the activities
on the board from the Warm-Up. The Grammar
D In pairs, take turns asking and answering your
Reference charts on page 186 include further
questions about Jobs. 5 min
affirmative and negative examples, and a list of
Put students in pairs and have them ask each
irregular verbs, expanding on the information in
other their questions. Remind them they should
the chart on page 13. You could have students
answer without looking at the profile they read.
complete the exercises for homework the day
before and check understanding during class.

E Think of a famous person from the past. Your
partner from D asks you five simple past
B Complete the text with the simple past form of the
questions and tries to guess the person. Then
verbs in parentheses. Then take turns reading it
switch roles and repeat. 10 min
aloud with a partner. 10 min
Think of a famous person from the past and
Tell students they are going to read a profile
tell students they can only ask you Yes / No
of Steve Jobs. Ask if anyone knows anything
questions to find out who your famous person is.
about him before reading. Then have students
© National Geographic Learning
Have students ask you questions and monitor
read the profile and write the verbs in the simple
their use of the simple past. After students have
past. Have students compare their answers with
guessed your person, give them a couple of
a partner’s before checking answers with the
minutes to each think of someone. Remind them
class. Then ask students to read the profile aloud
that it needs to be someone who is no longer
with a partner.
alive. Then assign students to pairs to ask Yes /
No questions to guess each other’s person.
EXTRA! Verb chart 10–15 min
Monitor and check use of the simple past and
Ask students to fill out a verb chart to keep handy.
correct question forms.
Label two columns: Simple Present and Simple

13a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 20 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 51 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 1, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
exercises. Then do the exercises below.

REVIEW OF THE SIMPLE PAST

Yes / No questions Answers

With be Were you in class today? Yes, I was. / No, I wasn’t.

With other verbs Did you pass the test? Yes, I did. / No, I didn’t.

Wh- questions Answers

With be Where were you today? (I was) in class.

With other verbs When did you start classes? (I started) last week.

B Complete the text with the simple past form of the verbs in parentheses. Then take turns reading it
aloud with a partner.
didn’t graduate
Apple cofounder Steve Jobs (1. not graduate) from college. Jobs
was
was
(2. be) a smart guy, but his school (3. be) expensive, and he
didn’t have    left
(4. not have) enough money to finish. So he (5. leave) college,
took
and he (6. take) a calligraphy class instead.
heard were
When his parents (7. hear) this, they (8. be) worried.
asked
“Why calligraphy?” (9. ask) his parents. “What can you do with that?” Jobs
wasn’t didn’t help
(10. not be) sure. The class (11. not help) him get a job,
helped used
but years later, it (12. help) him in another way. Jobs (13. use) ideas
from his calligraphy class to create Apple’s famous computer fonts.

C Read the text about Steve Jobs again. Write down three Yes / No and three Wh- questions in the
simple past about the information in the text.

D In pairs, take turns asking and answering your questions about Jobs.
Did Steve Jobs graduate    No, he didn’t.
Why not?
from college?

E Think of a famous person from the past. Your partner from D asks you
five simple past questions and tries to guess the person. Then switch
The Old English
roles and repeat.
alphabet in calligraphy

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 13

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 21 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 52 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Read the questions below. Then add one simple past Yes / No question and one
simple past Wh- question.

In middle school or high school, . . .

1. were you a good or bad student?
2. did you play any sports?
3. what was your favorite class?
4. which subject couldn’t you do very well?
5. ?
6. ?

B Think about your answers to the questions in A and make notes.

C Get into groups of three and follow the steps.
1. One student begins and chooses a question from A.
Speaker: Answer the question. Talk for a minute without stopping.

Listeners: Listen to the speaker and give one point if you answer yes to both
questions:

• Did the speaker talk for one minute without stopping a lot?
• Could you understand the speaker clearly?
2. Repeat step 1 with a different speaker until each speaker has gone five times.
The student with the most points is the winner!
I was a good student in high
school. I got good grades and . . .

D Turn to the Unit 1 Writing appendix and read the paragraph. Then answer the
questions.
Swim
1. What couldn’t the person do?
They had to watch friends have fun and couldn’t join in.
2. Why was this a problem?
3. How did the person learn?
With swimming lessons
USEFUL
Yes
4. Was the person successful?
EXPRESSIONS
When I was . . ., I
E WRITING Think about something you couldn’t do but learned to do.
couldn’t . . .
Answer the questions in D for you. Then use your ideas and write
Usually, this wasn’t a
your own paragraph. Remember to use simple past verbs.
problem, but . . .
Finally, I decided to . . .
At first, I was very nervous . . .
F Exchange paragraphs with a partner. Read your partner’s writing and
© National Geographic Learning
By the end, I was . . .
answer the questions in D. Did your partner use the simple past correctly?

1B GOALS Now I can . . .

Talk about classes and lessons    1. Yes, I can.
2. Mostly, yes.
Describe something I learned to do
3. Not yet.

14 | UNIT 1

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 22 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 53 ────────

E WRITING Think about something you couldn’t
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
do but learned to do. Answer the questions in D
for you. Then use your ideas and write your own
WARM-UP 5 min
paragraph. Remember to use simple past verbs.
Elicit what students did in middle school or high
10–15 min
school, how they felt, what they liked and didn’t like,
and write their answers on the board.
Initially, students should answer the four
questions in D about their own lives. This is a
useful way to plan their piece of writing. When
A Read the questions below. Then add one simple
they have written their four answers, they can
past Yes / No question and one simple past
start writing their paragraphs, using the Useful
Wh- question. 10 min
Expressions and remembering to use the simple
Put students in groups of three or four. Monitor
past. You can monitor and help a little, but
and check each group’s questions.
remember students also peer correct in F, so
don’t do too much correcting at this stage.
B Think about your answers to the questions in A
and make notes. 5 min
WRITING TIP: Planning
Individually, have students write notes for their
Often, students don’t plan their writing and they
answers to the questions in A. Explain that they
will need to be trained and encouraged to do so.
will need to refer to these notes as speaking
Whenever you set up a writing task, remind students
prompts in the next task. Monitor and help with
to spend a few minutes making notes (as in E)
ideas and vocabulary as necessary.
because this will help them generate ideas and
structure their writing.
C Get into groups of three and follow the steps.
25 min
F Exchange paragraphs with a partner. Read your
Go over the directions with the class and check
partner’s writing and answer the questions in D. Did
that they understand each step. Point out that
your partner use the simple past correctly? 5 min
they need to try to speak for a minute. If a
If your students are unfamiliar with giving
student doesn’t get the point for the question
feedback to their peers, remind them to be
they answered, they may choose that question
positive and tell their partner what they liked
again on another turn. Once they get the point,
about the paragraph as well as what needs
they cannot repeat the question. Put students
correcting. As well as commenting on the correct
in groups, and make sure each group has a
use of the simple past in the writing, partners
watch or phone to time the speaker. After each
can also comment on the use of the Useful
speaker, the rest of the group should answer the
Expressions.
questions and give the speaker feedback. Call
on each group to share something interesting
Diagnostics
they learned about one of their group members.
Check students’ competencies as follows:
• Are students able to form and use the
TEACHING TIP: Fluency and accuracy
simple past correctly in their sentences and
Whenever you set a speaking task, you need to
questions?
consider whether the main focus is on fluency and
• Are they able to use vocabulary about classes
allowing students to speak freely, or on improving
and lessons?
accuracy. Exercise C is a good example of an
exercise where the main focus is on fluency
• Are they using Useful Expressions to write a
because students are speaking and—hopefully—
short paragraph about success?
having some fun with the time limit and competitive
element. As you monitor though, take notes on any
common mistakes or errors with target language
© National Geographic Learning1B
GOALS
from the unit. Then, give general class feedback,
Review students’ self-assessment in the goals
congratulating them on managing to speak nonbox. Point out to students where they learned
stop for a minute, and also reminding them of
these skills in the unit. If they rated their ability
correct ways of using certain language (such as
below Yes, I can, they can turn back to those
the simple past).
pages and review the exercises.
Talk about classes and lessons: Vocabulary,
D Turn to the Unit 1 Writing appendix and read the
page 9; Listening, page 12, B–D
paragraph. Then answer the questions. 5 min
Describe something I learned to do: Reading,
Ask students to read a piece of writing by a
page 11, C–F; Grammar, page 13, B
person who failed at first and then succeeded in
the end. Answer the four questions.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson B | 14a

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 23 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 54 ────────

A You are going to watch a video with students talking
GLOBAL VOICES
about learning English. Watch the first part of the
video and complete the table with the missing
WARM-UP 10 min
numbers. 5 min
This Global Voices video includes vocabulary
Give students time to read the table and make
introduced earlier in this unit, so you could start the
sure they understand what is meant by the terms
lesson with this vocabulary revision quiz. Divide the
Classes and Private Lessons in the table: By
class into two teams and explain that you are going
classes, the speaker means a group of students,
to give each team a definition of a word. The team
as opposed to Private Lessons, where there is
must give you the correct answer for two points.
one teacher with one student. Play part one and
If they make a mistake, the other team gets the
have students listen for the numbers.
chance to answer for an extra one point.

Here are the ten questions (5 per group). (Answers
B Watch part two of the video and circle the correct
in parentheses.)
word or phrase to complete each sentence. 8 min
1. What do people do with musical instruments or
Let students read the sentences (1–5) and ask
sports? (Practice)
questions about any vocabulary. For example,
they may ask for a definition of the following:
2. What is the opposite of succeed ? (Fail)
nutritionist (n) a person who studies what food
3. What do students take at the end of a course?
is good for people
(Exam)
mental health counselor (n) someone who
4. What are the people in your class?
helps people feel better mentally (e.g., to stop
(Classmates)
depression)
5. What do you get after a test or for homework?
clients (n) another word for customers or people
(Grade)
who buy a service
6. What means “go to a school”? (Attend)
Play part two and have students circle the
7. What do you need to do before a test or exam?
correct word. They can check answers with their
(Prepare)
partner before telling the class.
8. What do you have every day at school?
(Classes)
C Watch the third part of the video and match the
speaker to the difficulty they have. 5 min
9. What do students do when they leave school or
college? (Graduate)
Ask students to look at the list of difficulties with
English and check that they understand the words
10. What means “to spend time learning a subject”?
accent and abbreviations. You could also ask if
(Study)
anyone finds any of these things difficult. Then play
part three and have students match the speakers.
ABOUT THE VIDEO
In this video, we watch students from around the
world talk about their lives studying English at a
D Work in pairs and take turns interviewing each
college in the United States. Note that the level
other with the questions below. You can also
of the students’ English varies. Point out to your
video or audio record your answers on your
students that more people around the world now
phone. 20 min
speak English as their second language than
Put students into pairs, trying to place students
people who speak it as their first language. In other
with someone they haven’t worked with so far,
words, your students need to get used to listening
if possible. Have students interview each other
to a variety of levels and accents of English in
with the questions. If students are able to video
their daily life. This video provides an excellent
or audio record themselves doing the interview,
opportunity.
this can be very effective because students often
respond more actively when they know they
© National Geographic Learning
have to make a recording. They can share their
VIDEO VIEWING TIP: Watching for gist
recording with you at the end for assessment.
In the same way that we ask students to read or
listen for gist, you can play the whole video through
ONLINE OPTION
once with books closed and ask students to watch
If you teach online, students can record themselves
and then report back what they think the video is
using a platform like Zoom that lets you record.
about, in general. As they will watch this Global
Or students could record the interview for
Voices video in three separate parts in A, B, and C,
homework and load it onto the class LMS (learning
you could play the whole video once beforehand
management system).
so they watch for gist and report back on what they
understood at this early stage.

15a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 1, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 24 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 55 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
explain
major
A You are going to watch a video with students talking about learning English. Watch the first part of
Boston    Massachusetts
the video and complete the table with the missing numbers.
important
speaking
four    difficulty
next lesson
communicate
Daniele Francielen Chiyuki Jaqueline
apply
stress
good
Number of    Classes:
1
conversation
people    intendjobs    accent
classes
4 4    5
sometimes studythink
plan
2
per week    Private lessons:
participate
able    namehours
Number of
level
2 1 21 2
year
mistake    career
country
classmates
home
abroad
five
friendly
want    TOEFL
Englishcorrect
class classmates
B Watch part two of the video and circle the correct word or phrase to complete each sentence.
online    rules exam    try
now    need
know
Japan
1. Daniele is / isn’t living in the US at the moment.
reallystudying
college exams test    sounds
two    living
2. She is / isn’t preparing for an English exam right now.
correctly
understand
pronounce
one
students    language
3. Francielen is a nutritionist in Brazil / the US.
pronunciationreasons    master’sthree
liveweek
student
4. As a mental health counselor, Chiyuki will need English to speak with clients / students.
right
preparing
5. Jaqueline wants to study for a master’s degree / an English test.
learningBrazil
classroom
words    difficult
speak
remember
degree
dream
classmate
classes
C Watch the third part of the video and match the speaker to the difficulty they have.
c
a. Understanding accents and abbreviations
1. Daniele
a
b. Pronouncing l and r sounds
2. Francielen
b
c. Remembering grammar rules
3. Chiyuki

D Work in pairs and take turns interviewing each other with the questions below. You can also video
or audio record your answers on your phone.

1. How many classes do you have a week?    6. Are you preparing for any English exams at
2. Who do you study with?    the moment?
3. How many students are in your class?    7. What do you think is difficult about learning
English?
4. Why are you learning English?
5. Why is English important for you?

reasons
important
difficulty
know
communicate    hours
mistake
explain    lesson
major
good
study thinkapply
career
This is a word
people
conversation
plan
cloud showing
accent
speak
the words
able    country
sometimes    participate
© National Geographic Learning
students said
year
English
abroad
in the video.
friendly
classroom
wantstudents    needTOEFL
The larger
class classmates
try
the word, the
sounds
remember
more times
living
college exams test
correctly
you can hear
dream
language
it in the video.
understandweek
pronounce
home    master’s
right
preparing
wordsdifficult online
learning
jobs
rules    degree
level
intend
Lesson B | 15

WLTB_L2_U01_ptg01.indd 25 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 56 ────────

UNIT 2

2
ABOUT THE PHOTO
The photo shows a traditional
Turkish breakfast. A Turkish family
is eating delicious pastries with
different types of jam, honey,
and cheese. There are fruits and
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THELET’S EAT!
QUESTIONS.
vegetables such as figs, peppers,
tomatoes, and cucumbers. Their
1. What foods can you see in the photo?
glasses have tea.
2. Are these foods healthy? Why or why not?
3. What are your three favorite foods? Why do
you like them?
INTRODUCE THE THEME
In this unit, students will explore
WARM-UP VIDEO
diet, food preferences, and
A Do you know which countries have these
healthy living.
national dishes? Does your country have a
national dish?
In Lesson A, students watch
a video about a traditional
curry kimchi mole pasta sushi
Mexican dish. Students then
curry – India    mole – Mexico sushi – Japan
kimchi – South Korea pasta – Italy
learn to describe how different
B Watch a video about mole. Number the parts
of the video (1–4) in the correct order.
kinds of foods are prepared
3
a. Grandma’s story
and how they taste. They also
4
b. The family has lunch together.
practice the listening strategies
2
c. mole ingredients and recipe
of making predictions and
1
d. the women who run the business
listening for details, and they
learn how to make and respond
C Watch the video again and answer the
to suggestions. Finally, they learn
questions.
how to compare foods.
1. How many pounds of mole do they make
each day?
2,000
In Lesson B, students learn to talk
Chilis, spices, sugar,
2. What ingredients are in mole?
chocolate, almonds, raisins, sesame seeds, oil, garlic, onions
about healthy diets and lifestyles.
3. Why do you need strong arms to make
They read about the best foods
Because you need to stir the mole a lot to
mole?
mix everything together.
to eat in different situations,
4. How long does the recipe take?
2 days
practicing the reading strategies of
5. Who checks the quality of the mole?
Grandma
reading for gist, and taking notes
To Mexican
6. Where do they sell and deliver to?
stores and restaurants in New York and all around the country.
from a text. They also talk about
7. Why is 2 pm the most important part of the
It’s when the family sits down together to
day?
the best places to eat, and write
eat lunch.
a restaurant review. Finally, they
D Is food from your country important to you?
watch someone making a recipe
Why or why not? How important is it for
and then they prepare and present
people and families to eat meals together in
their own recipe.
your country?

WARM-UP 5–10 min
Start the class with a fun
food-related words like bowl,
some students to share their
vocabulary game. Ask the class
bistro, and baked.
answers with the class. Note that
to call out ten letters from the
it is not obvious what some of the
alphabet at random and write
Start the game. Have teams raise
foods are in the photo, but some
them on the board. Then put
their hands when they think they
are easily recognizable (see About
students into groups of three or
© National Geographic Learning
have ten words, or stop the game
the photo). Overall, the food in the
four. Tell students they have two
after two minutes. If time runs out,
photo looks very healthy; it is all
minutes to think of ten words
find out which team thought of the
fresh and there is a good balance
starting with the letters on the
most words. You can repeat the
of different food types.
board and connected to the
game by writing ten new letters
topic of food; so if one of the
on the board and starting again.
letters on the board was the
WARM-UP VIDEO
letter B, they might think of beef,
Look at the photo. Answer the
About the video
bread, or bananas. Some letters
questions. 5 min
This video is about a family
will be harder than others, so
Ask students to read the three
who originally came from
they may have to think more
questions and answer them
Puebla in Mexico and now run
broadly about the topic and list
individually or in pairs. Then ask

16 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 2

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 2 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 57 ────────

a business in New York. In the
1970s, grandmother Damiana
Bravo cooked the sauce mole
in her kitchen and sold it to her
coworkers who missed the taste
A family eats a
traditional Turkish
of their national dish from home.
breakfast.
Over the years, Damiana’s sauce
became increasingly popular
and the number of orders grew
and grew. In the end, it became
the family business, and today,
Damiana, her daughter, and her
granddaughter make their special
recipe every day, selling it to
stores and restaurants all over
New York City.

A Do you know which countries
have these national dishes?
Does your country have a
national dish? 5–10 min
You could discuss these
dishes as a class. If you have
internet access, the students
could search for the dishes
if they want to see what
some of them look like. Also,
find out which of the dishes
students have tasted. When
your students say the name
of a dish from their country,
encourage them to try to
explain how it is made.

B Watch a video about mole.
Number the parts of the video
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
(1–4) in the correct order.
/ Describe and suggest food    / Describe a healthy diet and lifestyle
10 min
/ Compare places to eat    / Recommend a place to eat
Explain to students that to
complete this task they don’t
need to understand every
word; instead, they need to
D Is food from your country
understand the general meaning
EXTRA VIDEO
important to you? Why or
of the video and to identify its
VOCABULARY
why not? How important is
four main parts.
go-to-plate
it for people and families to
recipe
eat meals together in your
© National Geographic Learning
C Watch the video again and
our wildest dreams
country? 10–15 min
answer the questions.
(three) generations
With a small class, you could
10–15 min
to run (a business, a
discuss these questions
restaurant)
Before watching again,
together. With a large class,
ingredients
students could work in groups
divide students into groups of
to grind
to discuss the questions and
three or four and discuss the
to heat
try to remember and guess
questions. Afterwards, they
to pour in
some of the possible answers.
can report their group’s main
to stir
Then they could watch and
answers.
word of mouth
listen for specific details to
to long for something
check their guesses.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 2 | 17

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 3 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 58 ────────

2A FOODS WE LIKE

VOCABULARY
A Look at the photo of kulfi below. What do you think it is made with?
Kulfi is made with milk and sugar. It can also have fruit and nuts.

B Read the text and check your guess from A. Would you like to try this food? Why
or why not?

Kulfi is a delicious, frozen dessert or snack. It’s made with milk and
sugar, so it’s very sweet. This tasty treat is popular in countries such
as India and Malaysia, and in the Middle East. You can add different
fruits and nuts. In some countries, kulfi is spicy, too.

C Complete the word web with the words in blue from the text.
yummy
delicious / tasty
1.
terrible    awful
ACADEMIC SKILL
tasty / delicious
2.
Word webs
A word web can help you
Bad food    remember new words. Write
Good food
the topic in the middle and
add new words as you learn
them.
FOOD

juicy dry
How food is    How food
prepared tastes
cooked
sweet
sour 4.
fried    baked oily
frozen    spicy
3.    salty    mild 5.

D Think of a popular snack or street food in your country. Write the information.
Name of the food:    Banh mi sandwiches are a popular street
Taste:    food in Vietnam. They are very tasty!
My favorite kind has grilled chicken,
How the food is prepared:    cucumbers, and carrots.

Now tell a partner about the food using your notes.

Kulfi is often served
on a stick.

© National Geographic Learning

18 | UNIT 2

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 4 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 59 ────────

EXTRA! Make your own sentences 5 min
2A FOODS WE LIKE
Ask students to work in pairs and to choose five
new words from the word web. They have to make
VOCABULARY
new sentences with each of the new words to show
they understand the words. For example, Oranges
WARM-UP 5 min
are very juicy. Curry is often hot and spicy.
Ask volunteers to explain snack food and street
food. Then discuss the topic by asking students
to name some local snacks and street foods. As
ACADEMIC SKILL: Word webs
students name foods, list them. Ask any students
Your students may not have come across a word web
that have traveled to other countries or regions to
as a method of recording vocabulary. Often, students
name snacks and street foods from those places.
record vocabulary in vertical lists, but some people
argue that a word web tends to reflect the way the
brain stores information and it encourages students
A Look at the photo of kulfi below. What do you
to categorize new vocabulary. Certainly, it offers
think it is made with? 5 min
students another way of recording vocabulary that
Discuss this initial question as a class and let
they can try here. In future lessons, when students
students speculate what might be in the snack.
have learned a new lexical set, you could ask them to
If you have any students from countries where
try creating their own word web.
kulfi is well known, ask them to wait until other
students have guessed and then ask them to
give an “expert” answer.
D Think of a popular snack or street food in your
country. Write the information. 5–10 min
B Read the text and check your guess from A. Would
Model the exercise by having students help
you like to try this food? Why or why not? 5 min
you complete the information about a snack
Have students read the text and find out if their
or street food students are familiar with. Write
ideas in A were correct. Then call on several
the information on the board. Then have
students to say if they would like to try kulfi. Use
students choose a street food and complete
this opportunity to take any questions about the
the information. Monitor and help with other
vocabulary in blue in the text. Have students
vocabulary to describe the food and its
give you examples of other foods that are frozen,
preparation. Write any new vocabulary on the
sweet, or spicy.
board to help other students.

To prepare students for the next stage in the
VOCABULARY TIP: Adjectives ending in -y
exercise, which is telling their partner about the
food, have them read the example description of
We can add -y to many nouns to make adjectives
Banh mi sandwiches from Vietnam. Have them
meaning “full of something”: salt ➔ salty, oil ➔ oily.
underline any useful words or phrases such as
Note that some nouns lose the e at the end: juice ➔
They are very tasty! and My favorite kind has . . .
juicy, spice ➔ spicy
Then put students in pairs and have them tell
each other about their food.
More -y adjectives to describe
food
MORE WORDS: Describing how
buttery    greasy
food is cooked
creamy    nutty
baked    grilled
crispy    sugary
boiled    roasted
crunchy
fried    steamed

CULTURE TIP: Eating on the run
C Complete the word web with the words in blue
© National Geographic Learning
from the text. 5–10 min
Fast food is food that can be purchased and eaten
quickly. In some cultures, it is completely acceptable
Allow students some time to study the word web
to eat and walk at the same time. In other cultures,
as this might be the first time they have ever
eating and walking is considered rude. Touching
seen one. Explain that it is a good way to group
your food with your hands is also tricky; in some
vocabulary by meaning and use. You could do
cultures, it is acceptable, while in other cultures,
numbers 1 and 2 together and show how the
it is rude. Touching food with your left hand is
words delicious and tasty describe good food.
considered especially rude in some cultures. Ask
Check answers as a class.
students what food taboos they have in their culture
and who they see doing these things.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson A | 18a

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 5 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 60 ────────

whole conversation. Here, they should focus on
LISTENING
listening for the details about the food.
WARM-UP 5 min
TEACHING OPTION 5 min
Review the adjectives used to describe food. List
five or six foods that students know, and call on
Before you move on, you could ask students to say
students to describe the taste. Write the adjectives
if they think the food Marta describes sounds good.
students say.
Ask, Which of the dishes would you like to try?
Why?

TEACHING TIP: Preview vocabulary

Before listening to or reading new material, preview
EXPANSION: Dictation 5-10 min
key words, words that cannot be figured out by
Before you go to D, have students close their
context, or words that are highlighted. This helps
books. Tell them you are going to read six
students understand the main idea by giving them
sentences aloud and they have to write down what
information to build on.
they hear. Then read sentences 1–6 in D aloud for
students to write. Afterwards, have students open
their books again, look at D, and compare the
A Make predictions. Look at the bowl of food. Which
sentences in the book with what they wrote down.
part of the world do you think it comes from? What
Dictation is a great way to check vocabulary and
do you think the food tastes like? 3 min
introduce sentences for pronunciation.
Tell students to look at the photo of food that they
will learn about in the listening. They will need
to use background knowledge about the food
D PRONUNCIATION: Sentence stress Listen
to guess where it comes from and what it tastes
to the sentences and underline the stressed
like. Ask if any students have had this type of
words. Then listen again and repeat. 10 10 min
food before.
You can either play the audio and have students
underline the stressed words, or you could have
Make predictions. Remind students that
students read the six sentences first and try to
guessing about the topic they are going to hear
guess where the stress will be before listening.
about before they listen helps them activate
Have students compare their answers with a
vocabulary and language structures they might
partner’s. Then you can play the audio again
hear. This will help them understand more when
and check answers with the class. Finally, play
they listen.
one more time and have students repeat each
sentence.
B Listen to the conversation and check (✓) the food
that Marta ordered at a southern restaurant in the
PRONUNCIATION TIP: Sentence rhythm
state of Georgia, US. 9 5 min
and stress
Tell students they are going to listen to a
Being aware of sentence stress can help students
conversation between two colleagues about
understand spoken English better. Individual words
Marta’s trip to a city called Savannah in the
have stressed syllables, but in a sentence, some
state of Georgia. Marta will talk about the dish
words are also stressed. This gives English its
in the photo. For this first exercise, students
rhythm. The words in a sentence that are stressed
should concentrate on listening for the
are usually the content words—that is, the words
names of different foods and not worry about
that carry the meaning of the sentence. Knowing this
understanding every word.
will help students focus on the stressed words in a
sentence and understand its meaning.
C Listen for details. Listen again and write the
missing words. Which food didn’t Marta like?
9 10 min
E Tell a partner about a meal you ate recently (at
© National Geographic Learning
Tell students that they should listen closely for
home, in a restaurant, at school, etc.). Describe
words they learned in the word web on the
each dish using the correct sentence stress.
previous page and how Marta describes the
10 min
foods. Expect to play the audio twice, allowing
You can simply put students in pairs and have
time in between for students to write their answers.
them describe the meal, but another way to
approach the exercise is to have each student
Listen for details. Remind students to identify
write down three or four sentences about the meal
key words to listen for before they listen—in this
they ate recently using adjectives to describe it.
case, the names of the foods and the words
Then they can underline the words they think they
used to describe them. When listening for
should stress. When they are ready, they can read
details, students don’t need to understand the
the sentences aloud to their partner.

19a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 6 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 61 ────────

Shrimp and grits
can be eaten for
breakfast, lunch,
or dinner.

LISTENING

A Make predictions. Look at the bowl of food. Which part of the world do you think it comes
from? What do you think the food tastes like?

B Listen to the conversation and check (✓) the food that Marta ordered at a southern restaurant
in the state of Georgia, US. 9

fried chicken lemon pie salad
✓
fried green tomatoes Mississippi mud pie steak and fries
✓    ✓
grits tomato soup
✓

C Listen for details. Listen again and write the missing words. Which food didn’t Marta like? 9
tasty
1. Southern cooking is !
She didn’t like the
WORD BANK
Mississippi mud pie.
2. The food was .
delicious    Too + adjective is a
yummy    negative description. If
3. The chicken tasted .
someone says, “The food
mild
4. Grits have a flavor.
is too sweet,” then they
sour    don’t like it.
5. The fried green tomatoes were a little , but they
well
went with the chicken and grits.
sweet
6. The pie was too for Marta.

D PRONUNCIATION: Sentence stress Listen to the sentences and underline the stressed
words. Then listen again and repeat. 10

1. The cooking was tasty!
© National Geographic Learning
2. The food was delicious.
3. The chicken was dry.
4. The grits were too salty.
5. The tomatoes were sour.    I had dinner last night
in a restaurant. The
6. The tomato soup was too hot.
soup was cold!

E Tell a partner about a meal you ate recently (at home, in a restaurant,    The French fries
were too salty!
at school, etc.). Describe each dish using the correct sentence stress.

Lesson A | 19

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 7 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 62 ────────

SPEAKING

Jill: Well, Thai House is near here.
A Listen to the conversation. Then
And there’s another place—The
answer the questions. 11
Thai Cafe—but it’s downtown.
Pedro: So, Jill, where do you want to go
Pedro: Thai House is closer. Let’s go
to dinner tonight?
there.
Jill: I don’t know. Why don’t we go to
Jill: Sounds good!
the pizza place on the corner?
1. What are Pedro and Jill going to eat
Pedro: Pizza again? I don’t really feel
(They’re going to eat) Thai food.
for dinner?
like it.
2. How do Pedro and Jill make and
Jill: OK, how about Thai food
respond to suggestions? Underline
instead?
the words.
Pedro: Fine with me. Where do you want
to go?
Bird’s eye peppers, often used
in Thai food, are very spicy.

B Practice the conversation with a partner.

12
SPEAKING STRATEGY
C Study the Speaking Strategy.
Making suggestions Responding to
Then complete the conversations
suggestions
below with a partner.
Statements Good / Great idea!
Let’s
1. A: stop at that
Let’s have Thai food.    (That) sounds good (to me).
cafe for coffee.
Questions    (That’s) fine with me.
Why don’t we have I don’t really want to.
idea
B: Good !
Thai food? I don’t really feel like it.
How about having
2. A: What time do you want to
When rejecting a suggestion, it’s common to give an
meet in the morning?
explanation: I don’t really feel like it. I’m too tired.
Why don’t we
B: meet at 7:00?
How about
A: That’s a little early. meeting at 8:00 instead?
fine
B: That’s with me. See you then.

3. A: What do you want to do today?
How about
B: going to the beach?
really want Let’s
A: I don’t to. see a movie instead.
(that) sounds
B: OK, good.

Why don’t we go to Parr’s
D Get into groups of three and follow the steps.
Steakhouse for lunch?
1. On your own, think of two good restaurants.
© National Geographic Learning
That’s a great idea!
2. Suggest one of the restaurants to your partners. They can accept
or refuse. If a person refuses, he or she should say why and
I don’t really feel like steak.
suggest something else.
How about having Indian
food instead?
3. Switch roles and repeat steps 1 and 2 until each student has made
a suggestion.

20 | UNIT 2

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 8 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 63 ────────

as a class, and ask for alternate answers in
SPEAKING
sentences where more than one is possible. As
an extension, you could have students read the
WARM-UP 5 min
completed conversations aloud in pairs.
Ask students about their favorite restaurant.
Ask them why it is their favorite place to eat out.
Students can describe the food, the service, or
LANGUAGE TIP: Ellipsis
the decor.
Ellipsis is when we leave out one or more words
from a sentence without affecting the meaning.
It is common in spoken English and there are
TEACHING OPTION 5 min
examples of ellipsis in the Speaking Strategy box.
As a variation to listening to and reading the
For example, in a response to a suggestion, you
conversation in A, you could have students keep
can say, That sounds good to me. / That’s fine with
their books closed at this stage of the lesson and
me. or you can say, Sounds good. / Fine with me.
play the audio only. Ask students to listen to the
Both responses are acceptable when speaking.
audio (without reading the conversation) and
Sometimes students ask about this, but you
answer what Pedro and Jill are going to eat for
might want to point it out when studying the list of
dinner. Afterwards, have them open their books, do
expressions.
A, and check their original answer. This option is
more challenging, so only use it if you feel the class
is capable of it.
CULTURE TIP: Rejecting suggestions

When rejecting a suggestion, many speakers of
English usually give an explanation, even if it’s
A Listen to the conversation. Then answer the
not completely honest. Omitting an excuse can
questions. 11 10 min
sound too blunt or rude. In some Asian cultures
Tell students they will hear a conversation
(like China and Japan), it is also rude to reject a
between two friends who are making plans to
suggestion directly. An invitee may not commit to
go to a restaurant. Play the audio one or more
the suggestion while never saying “no” directly. Do
times while students read along. Students should
not push for another answer. It is considered rude to
complete the questions independently. Check
make someone commit when they are trying to be
the answers as a class. Explain that Let’s is more
polite by not saying “no”.
direct and informal, while Why don’t we . . .? and
How about . . .? are slightly more formal.
D Get into groups of three and follow the steps.
15 min
TEACHING TIP: Familiar content
Tell students to think of their two favorite
When looking at a new conversation, remind
restaurants and why they like them. Call on three
students of content within it that is familiar. Review
volunteers to read the speech bubbles. Then put
the familiar content to build confidence and
students into groups and explain that the group
meaning. In A, review the words used to talk about
will choose which one of the favorite restaurants
locations that are nearby; for example, on the
to go to. Require that each group member make
corner, around the corner, down the street.
a suggestion or express an alternative choice.
After groups practice and change roles and
repeat, they can share their restaurant choice
B Practice the conversation with a partner. 5 min
with the class.
Assign pairs to practice the conversation. Then
students should switch roles. Finally, they should
change partners and practice the conversation
MORE WORDS: Places to eat
with their new partner.
cafe, coffee shop, tea room, coffee house,
bakery
C Study the Speaking Strategy. Then complete the
© National Geographic Learning
diner, deli / delicatessen
conversations below with a partner. 10–15 min
trattoria, bistro, tapas bar
Introduce the expressions in the box, saying
steakhouse, barbecue restaurant
them for the class to repeat. Point out that each
sentence under Making suggestions is a way of
snack bar, food court, concession stand,
suggesting a plan or idea, and each sentence
cafeteria
under Responding to suggestions is a polite
raw bar, oyster bar, sushi bar
way of saying yes or no. Point out the speaking
bar and grill, tavern, inn
tip about rejecting a suggestion. Then, put
students in pairs to complete the conversations
using the Speaking Strategy. Check answers

Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson A | 20a

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 9 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 64 ────────

Animals: elephant / lion
GRAMMAR
Countries: the US / Ireland
WARM-UP 5 min
Famous people: Elvis / Einstein
Ask students to recall adjectives they have learned in
Food: pizza / salad
this lesson. List the adjectives. Name a food, such as
Sports: soccer / golf
chicken, and give an example description: Chicken
is delicious. Repeat by naming several foods that
Transportation: bicycle / car
students can describe for the class using adjectives.
Then elicit example sentences for each pair from
Leave the list of adjectives on the board.
students and write them on the board. Some
suggested sentences are:
A Read the Unit 2, Lesson A Grammar Reference
Animals: An elephant is taller than a lion.
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below. 20–30 min
Countries: The US is bigger than Ireland.
Go over the examples in the chart. Then have
Famous people: Einstein lived longer than Elvis.
students make the comparative forms of the
Food: Pizza is more delicious than salad.
adjectives from the Warm-Up. Write them next
Sports: Soccer is more exciting than golf.
to each adjective on the list. Have students
complete the exercises on this page. The
Transportation: A bicycle is better for the
Grammar Reference charts on page 187 include
environment than a car.
more examples and an explanation of spelling
Once you have demonstrated the exercise using
rules, expanding on the information in the chart
some or all of the examples above, let students
on page 21. You could have students complete
work in pairs and create new sentences.
the exercises for homework the day before and
Alternatively, students could work alone at first
check understanding during class.
and write out their sentences and then work in
pairs. Note that some sentences may express
B Read about two places to eat and complete the
opinions, so students might disagree.
sentences. Choose an adjective and write it in the
comparative form. 10–15 min
GRAMMAR TIP: Comparative adjectives
Have students read the notes about each of
There are some two-syllable adjectives that can be
the two restaurants. Clarify the meaning of any
used with either the -er ending or with more:
vocabulary, such as space and serves. Space
is the noun we use when we talk about how big
quiet – quieter / more quiet
or small a room is: There is enough space (for a
handsome – handsomer / more handsome
certain number of people). / This room is a big /
small space. Serves is a verb and we use it to
pleasant – pleasanter / more pleasant
talk about what type of food a restaurant sells
simple – simpler / more simple
or how quickly or slowly the food arrives: It
serves Italian food. / It serves food quickly (in
narrow – narrower / more narrow
five minutes) / slowly (after half an hour). Also
check that students understand the star system
used with customer reviews. You could even ask
LANGUAGE TIP: Comparative adjectives
students if they have ever written a restaurant
Explain that while comparatives require either more
review and given it stars.
before a word or -er after a word, it is incorrect to
use the two together. Write an incorrect example:
Based on the information in the table, students
Rice is more healthier than bread. Correct the
should complete the five sentences by choosing
example with input from students.
the correct adjective and writing it in the
comparative form. Have students compare
answers in pairs and then go through them as
EXTRA! Pronunciation of comparative
© National Geographic Learning
a class.
sentences 5 min
You could remind students about the pronunciation
C In pairs, choose a topic below and give your
they studied on page 19. They practiced sentence
partner two topic words. Then your partner will
stress and rhythm. Point out that sentences with
compare them. Switch roles until you have done
comparative adjectives also have a particular
all the topics. 10–15 min
sentence stress and rhythm. Write this sentence on
It’s a good idea to do a few of these as a class
the board: Salad is healthier than pizza.
first so everyone understands what is expected.
Begin by writing the following example pairs of
Then read it aloud. Ask, Which words do we stress?
words for each topic on the board.
Students should notice that these underlined words
are stressed: Salad is healthier than pizza.

21a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 10 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 65 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 2, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

THE COMPARATIVE FORM OF ADJECTIVES
Three or more
One syllable Two syllables Irregular forms
syllables

old → older    quiet → quieter    comfortable →    good → better
nice → nicer    spicy → spicier    more comfortable    bad → worse
big → bigger famous → more famous
Note: The comparative form of well (an adverb) is better.

B Read about two places to eat and complete the sentences. Choose an adjective and write it in the
comparative form.

Tony’s Family Restaurant    Le Jules Verne Restaurant
• Space for 50 people    • Space for 120 people
• Typical meal for two costs $60    • Typical meal for two costs $500
• Serves food in fifteen minutes    • Serves food in about one hour
• Metal tables and plastic chairs • Wooden tables and comfortable chairs
• Customer reviews:    • Customer reviews: ✰✰✰✰

is smaller than
1. Tony’s Family Restaurant (small / big) Le Jules Verne Restaurant.
is more expensive than
2. Le Jules Verne Restaurant (cheap / expensive) Tony’s.
is faster than
3. The service at Tony’s (slow / fast) at Le Jules Verne.
is more comfortable than
4. Le Jules Verne (comfortable / uncomfortable) Tony’s.
is better than
5. Customers think Le Jules Verne (good / bad) Tony’s.

C In pairs, choose a topic below and give your partner two topic words. Then your partner will
compare them. Switch roles until you have done all the topics.

animals famous people sports    I choose food: pizza
Salad is healthier
countries food transportation    and salad.
than pizza.

Le Jules Verne
Restaurant is
located on the
second floor
© National Geographic Learning
of the Eiffel
Tower in Paris,
France.

Lesson A | 21

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 11 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 66 ────────

The hamburgers at the 66 Diner
in New Mexico, US are famous.
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Work in groups. Imagine you are going out to eat together, and you need to choose a restaurant.
Discuss the list and decide as a group which items are more or less important.

• price • fast service
• location • cleanliness
• quality of food • friendly service
• comfortable tables and chairs • type of food

I think the location is more important than the type of food. I don’t want
to travel a long way.

B JoJo’s Burger Restaurant closed six months ago, but it is reopening. Listen to the radio
advertisement and answer the questions. 13
They have more modern tables and more
1. What is different about the restaurant now?
comfortable chairs, a bigger menu with more burgers to choose from, and faster service.
2. What is the same?
All the favorite burgers are still there (including the mighty spicy
double cheeseburger), and they have the same friendly servers.

C In pairs, imagine you are going to open a new restaurant. Discuss and write the information.
1. The name of your restaurant and its location:
2. The type of restaurant:
3. A description of a special dish on the menu:
4. The type of customer and price:
5. What makes your restaurant better than others?

D Write a 30-second radio ad for your new restaurant and practice reading it aloud with your partner.

© National Geographic Learning
E Present your ad to the class. Whose ad was the best? Whose restaurant would you go to? Why?
Come to our new Chinese restaurant. It’s bigger and better than all the rest!

2A GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Describe and suggest food
2. Mostly, yes.
Compare places to eat
3. Not yet.

22 | UNIT 2

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 12 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 67 ────────

for the audio in B on page T287 and read it for
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
some ideas. Then they should start to write a
short advertisement for their new restaurant in
WARM-UP 3 min
C. Tell them that the ad should refer to some of
Ask the class to imagine you are all going out this
the features in A and include some comparative
evening to eat together. Ask for suggestions of
adjectives.
which type of restaurant you should all go to. When
students give their opinions, ask them to give a
reason for their choice.
E Present your ad to the class. Whose ad was the
best? Whose restaurant would you go to? Why?
20–25 min
A Work in groups. Imagine you are going out to eat
Before each pair in D reads out their
together, and you need to choose a restaurant.
advertisement, allow a little time for them to
Discuss the list and decide as a group which
practice reading it aloud. Remind them to
items are more or less important. 10–15 min
think about which words they should stress
Explain the task to students and point out that a
for emphasis. After everyone has read, ask
phrase like “I think . . . is more important than . . .”
classmates to give feedback and choose one
will be very useful in this exercise. Also, remind
or two that really convinced them to go to the
them to use comparative forms of adjectives when
restaurant.
discussing the items on the list. For example,
when they discuss price they might need to use
ONLINE OPTION
adjectives like cheaper or more expensive.
If you are teaching online, the pairs could record
their advertisements and share the recordings as
Put students into groups to start their discussion.
audio files on the class LMS, for example. Or they
Monitor the groups and provide help with any
could email you their audio files and you could play
vocabulary as you go around. Take notes about
the recordings for the class in the next session.
any difficulties and give feedback at the end. If
Hearing these recordings will also help you identify
you are doing this task online, use the breakout
any difficulties students are having.
rooms and then have a spokesperson from each
group report back at the end.

EXTRA! Design an ad 10–15 min
B JoJo’s Burger Restaurant closed six months ago,
Either in class if you have time, or for homework,
but it is reopening. Listen to the radio advertisement
students could work alone and design a magazine
and answer the questions. 13 10 min
or website advertisement for their restaurant. They
Before listening, ask students to predict the
can use their ideas from the radio advertisement,
type of language they expect to hear in this
but they would need to design it in a different way.
advertisement. Elicit that it will refer to certain
things students discussed in A (e.g., table
Diagnostics
and chairs, the service) and it will also use
Check students’ competencies as follows:
comparative forms of adjectives to describe
what is different. Play the audio twice so that
• Are students able to use adjectives to talk about
students can check their answers.
how food tastes?
• Are they able to make suggestions and respond?
C In pairs, imagine you are going to open a new
• Are they using comparative forms of adjectives
restaurant. Discuss and write the information.
in sentences?
5–10 min
• Are they able to compare places to eat?
This is a good opportunity for students to be
creative. Suggest that they choose their “dream”
type of restaurant and base their ideas around
© National Geographic Learning2A
GOALS
that. Monitor so that you can help students who
lack ideas, but avoid any correction at this stage
Review students’ self-assessment in the goals
of the lesson.
box. Point out to students where they learned
these skills in the unit. If they rated their ability
below Yes, I can, they can turn back to those
D Write a 30-second radio ad for your new
pages and review the exercises.
restaurant and practice reading it aloud with your
Describe and suggest food: Vocabulary,
partner. 10 min
page 18, B-C; Listening, page 19; Speaking,
Discuss with the class what makes a good ad.
page 20; Active English, page 22, C–E
For example, what kind of ad on the radio makes
Compare places to eat: Grammar,
them listen? Should it have more than one voice?
page 21, B-C
They could also look back at the listening script

Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson A | 22a

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 13 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 68 ────────

TEACHING TIP: Stressed syllables
2B EATING WELL
When you teach the meaning of new words, set
aside time to pronounce any difficult words and
VOCABULARY
check that students can say them. Get students
into the habit of listening to the words and then
WARM-UP 5 min
underlining the stressed syllable of any multi-
Ask students to look at the photo of healthy food
syllable words. For example, with the words in blue
at a Spanish market and then think about their
in A, they would need to underline the stressed
own diet and lifestyle. Ask, Do you eat healthy
syllable of the following words: diet, plenty, lifestyle,
foods? What foods? Then ask, Besides eating right,
reduce, habit, prevent, increase, benefit. Also,
what habits are healthy? Suggest exercising, not
draw attention to words like health, which has one
smoking, and relaxing, if students do not.
syllable only but some students might think it has
more than one syllable and should have a stressed
CULTURE TIP: Mediterranean diet
syllable. You can also have students write the
number of syllables after a word, like this: health (1)
When talking about healthy food, people often
diet (2) plenty (2) benefit (3).
refer to something called the “Mediterranean diet.”
This type of diet includes the types of food you
might find in countries such as Spain, Italy, and
C Choose the answers that are true for you. Circle T
Greece, and also in North African countries such as
for true or F for false. 5 min
Morocco. It means food such as fresh vegetables,
Go over the statements with the class. Give
fruits, nuts and beans, and plenty of seafood rather
students time to think about their answers. Have
than red meat. In particular, olive oil is used rather
students answer the quiz individually.
than dairy products such as butter. The photo at
the bottom of page 23 is from Spain and the food
shown is typical of a Mediterranean diet, so you
D Tell a partner about your answers in C. Do you
could ask your students if they can identify any of it.
have a healthy diet and lifestyle? Why or why
not? 5 min
Have students talk to a partner about their
A You are going to read about the healthiest countries
answers and whether their diet and lifestyle are
in the world. What types of food do you think they
healthy or not, using the information in 1–4 in C.
eat? Tell the class. Then read and find out. 10 min
Monitor and encourage students to ask follow-up
Ask the class what type of food they expect
questions. Call on students to say something
to read about in the text. Also ask if they can
about their diet and lifestyle.
predict which countries are likely to be the
healthiest and say why. Then, have students
EXTRA! A health survey 25–30 min
read the text and see if their predictions about
types of food and countries were correct.
Have students do a survey of their classmates’
health. Put students into pairs and have them
create a survey or questionnaire form with six or
B Match the words in blue from A to the definitions.
seven questions, using ideas and vocabulary from
5 min
this page. For example, they might write questions
Students can work together in pairs and help
such as:
each other match the words in blue to the
definitions.
1. How often do you eat fresh vegetables? Every
day? Twice a week? Once a week? Never?
EXPANSION: Create a word web 10–15 min
2. How often do you do exercise outdoors? Every
day? Twice a week? Once a week? Never?
In Lesson A, students were introduced to the idea of
using a word web to record new vocabulary. This is
When everyone has a set of questions, have
a good opportunity to apply this study skill by having
students interview four or five other people in the
them create a word web for the words in blue from A.
class. Afterwards, they can write a short report of
You could also ask them to add five or six more words
© National Geographic Learningtheir results and comment on how healthy the class
related to the topic of diet and health.
is, based on their survey.

MORE WORDS: Food and lifestyle
Positive: home-grown food / local food / organic
food
Negative: fast food / processed food / fatty foods
Lifestyle: healthy / unhealthy / busy / active

23a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 14 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 69 ────────

2B EATING WELL

VOCABULARY

A You are going to read about the healthiest countries in the world. What types of food do you think they
eat? Tell the class. Then read and find out.
Experts studied the diets and lifestyles of 163 nations to find the healthiest countries in the world.

• Spain was number one! The Spanish diet has plenty of olive oil and fresh vegetables. Also,
Spanish people eat less fast food than any other European country.

• Japan was also in the top ten with the oldest population in the world. The Japanese know that
eating more fresh fish than red meat can bring health benefits and prevent illnesses.

• Australians, at number seven, love being outdoors, and their healthy diet increases energy for
sports and exercise. In recent years, Australians also reduced unhealthy habits, like smoking.

B Match the words in blue from A to the definitions.
diet
1. usual food you eat:    6. stop something from happening:
plenty    prevent
2. a lot:
lifestyle    increase
3. the way you live:    7. make more of something:
reduce
4. do something less:    8. something that helps your body:
health benefit
habit
5. something you often do:

C Choose the answers that are true for you. Circle T for true or F for false.
1. I need to eat less fast food. T F
2. I eat plenty of fruits and vegetables. T F
3. I get plenty of exercise and have an outdoor lifestyle. T F
4. I have one or two bad habits, like eating too much candy. T F
I have a healthy diet
and lifestyle. I get
D Tell a partner about your answers in C. Do you have a healthy diet    plenty of exercise,
and lifestyle? Why or why not?    and I eat . . .

© National Geographic Learning
La Boqueria Market in
Barcelona, Spain sells
many different fruits
and vegetables.

Lesson B | 23

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 15 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 70 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Write the title of the reading, The
Best Foods to Eat, on the board.
Ask students for suggestions for
T H E B E S T
“the best foods to eat” and write
them around the board. Then ask
students what it might depend
F O O D S
on. For example, What is the best
food if the weather is very cold?
What is the best food when you
T O E AT
are feeling sick? Add some more
suggestions to the board.

A Read for the gist. Look quickly
at the title, photo, and first
paragraph. What is the main
goal of the article? 5–10 min
Ask students to study the title
and photo. Ask them if the
dish shown in the photo looks
There are many
similar to any food in their
different types of
country. You could also ask if
chicken soup around
they would like to try this type
the world. This one
has chicken, corn,
of food. Then have them read
and asparagus.
the first paragraph and the
four possible answers (a–d).

Read for the gist. Students
can learn so much about a text
before they read it in detail by
looking at the title, image, and
any introductory information
in the first paragraph. It helps
them predict the type of
language they need to look
for when reading for specific
information later in the text.
Have them try this technique
when reading any text and
sum up the general meaning
or purpose of a text before
24 | UNIT 2
continuing.

B Read the article. What is the
EXTRA! Role-play making
and their partner should make
best food or drink for the
suggestions 5–10 min
suggestions about the type of
people below? 5 min
food they could eat. Remind
For a fun role-play to follow up the
As a class read the four
students to use the expressions for
© National Geographic Learning
exercise in B, ask each student
sentences. You could ask
making suggestions on page 20,
to write down one problem or
students to read each
such as Why don’t you . . . ?
difficult situation they are having
comment aloud. Ask students
and How about eating . . . ? This
(e.g., they are feeling tired or
if they ever feel like any of the
exercise is a fun way to extend
they have an important meeting
people and their comments.
the exercise in B, and it recycles
later today). Then have students
Then have students read the
the language from earlier in
work in pairs. They should take
rest of the text and find the
the unit and provides fluency
turns telling their partner about
best food for each person.
practice.
their problem or difficult situation

24 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 16 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 71 ────────

C Take notes. Read the article
again and take notes in your
In their book What to Eat When, Dr. Michael
When you have a job interview
notebook on why these types of
Roizen and Dr. Michael Crupain describe the
On the morning of the interview, eat a good
food are good for you. 5–10 min
benefits of eating certain foods in different
breakfast. It’s the most important meal of
Students need to scan the
situations.
the day! A hot cereal, like oatmeal, is good
text for the types of food listed
because it gives you a lot of energy quickly and
When you’re going on a first date
and find out why they are
improves attention. Also, coffee or tea can help
Feeling nervous? Eat a sandwich with turkey
you think better. Have one or two cups
good for us. Make sure they
and avocado. Unlike sugar, these two foods give
forty-five minutes before the interview.
aren’t copying down whole
you energy slowly, so you feel calm.
sentences from the text but
When you’re hangry
rather are writing down key
When you don’t feel well
It’s late afternoon, and you’re in a bad mood
words and phrases only. Before
It’s the world’s oldest advice, but it’s true. When
because you’re hungry. In other words, you’re
you have a cold, eat plenty of chicken soup.
you check the answers as a
hangry!1 What do you eat? Some people like
Because it’s warm and salty, the soup is
to eat something sweet, but eating a snack
class, students can compare
good for your throat. It helps you breathe
like nuts or something high in protein2 is much
the words they wrote down with
easier, too.
better. Protein reduces hunger more quickly, and
their partner’s.
it’s healthier than sweets. 14
Are headaches your problem? If yes, eat more
spinach. Spinach can reduce pain and prevent
Take notes. When giving
1Hangry (informal, slang) is a combination of the words
headaches. It’s also high in B vitamins, so make
students reading texts, we
hungry and angry.
2Protein is found in foods like meat, nuts, beans, and
it part of your normal diet.
often guide the reading with
eggs.
comprehension questions.
However, in the future students
will need to read texts and take
A Read for the gist. Look quickly at the title,
C Take notes. Read the article again and take
photo, and first paragraph. What is the main goal
notes in your notebook on why these types of
their own notes. Note-taking
of the article?
food are good for you.
requires students to make
a. to explain why a healthy diet is good for you
1. turkey and avocado
Gives energy slowly.
decisions independently of the
Helps you feel calm.
It’s good for your throat and helps you
b. to compare the benefits of different types
2. chicken soup
guidance from a question, so
breathe easier.
of food
3. spinach
Reduces pain and prevents headaches. It’s high
it’s useful to encourage this
in B vitamins.
c. to give advice about the best foods for
4. hot cereal, like oatmeal
Gives energy quickly and
improves attention.
type of reading skill at an early
different times
5. coffee or tea
Helps you think better.
stage.
d. to describe how to cook different foods
6. nuts
High in protein, which gets rid of hunger quickly.
Healthier than sweets.
B Read the article. What is the best food or drink
D Work in groups. What do you
D Work in groups. What do you think are the
for the people below?
best foods to eat in these situations? Why?
think are the best foods to eat in
1. “We’re meeting at eight. Is my hair OK? Will
1. in the morning for breakfast
these situations? Why? 10 min
a sandwich with turkey and avocado
she like this shirt?”
2. the night before an important test or exam
2. “It’s been a terrible day! I missed breakfast,
Have students work in groups
3. when you feel hungry between meals
nuts or something
and I’m so angry with my boss!”
of three or four. The groups
high in protein
4. when you go for a long walk in the
3. “I think I need to see the doctor. My
should talk about each
countryside
spinach
headaches are getting worse.”
situation and each member
5. at a special occasion, like a birthday party
4. “I’m so stressed. I really need to get this job
should say what they would
a hot cereal, like oatmeal, and coffee or tea    or wedding
today.”
eat and why. Encourage
the groups to try to reach
an agreement about what is
the best food to eat for each
Lesson B | 25
situation if they can. At the
end, ask a spokesperson in
each group to report back to
the whole class on what foods
write, or choose a student who
effective group work it can be
were suggested and why.
often talks the most—this role
helpful to do the following:
means they take a break from
TEACHING TIP: Organizing
1. Choose one student to be in
speaking so much and it lets
© National Geographic Learning
group discussion work
charge of the group. It is their
others do the talking. It’s also
job to make sure everyone has
a good idea for the note-taker
Group discussion work can
a chance to speak. It’s best to
to be the spokesperson who
sometimes become disorganized
choose a confident student for
reports back at the end.
when some students talk a lot and
this role.
some students don’t talk at all.
3. Once your students become
Also, when you need the group to
2. Choose another student to
used to working in groups like
report back, you often find no one
be the note-taker. They need
this, they can decide who is
has taken notes on the discussion
to write down the group’s
in charge and who will take
and so the report is limited. For
answers. This can either be a
notes.
student who likes to listen and

Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson B | 25

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 17 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 72 ────────

LISTENING

A Write down the times you normally eat breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Then compare your times with
a partner. Are the times similar or very different? Why?

B Listen for time. Listen to a talk about eating in different cultures.
WORD BANK
Take notes about the dinner times in these cultures and countries. 15
Takeout is food you buy
4 pm
1. In (northern) Norway
from a restaurant to eat in
another place.
6:30 pm
2. In China
When you eat on the go,
6:22 pm or between 5 and 11 pm
3. In the US
you eat while traveling
Between 7 and 9 pm    from one place to another.
4. In Mexico, France, and Brazil
8 or 9, sometimes 10 or 11 pm
5. In Spain

C Listen again. Circle T for true or F for false. 15
1. When you visit another country, it’s good to know T F
something about meal times there.

2. Eight-thirty pm is one of the most common times to eat T F
dinner around the world.

3. Dinner is usually the biggest and longest meal in T F
countries like Mexico and France.

4. In Brazil, people often eat dinner while traveling from T F
work to home.

5. If you are invited for dinner in Spain, the speaker suggests T F
you have something to eat earlier in the evening.

D Work in pairs and discuss the questions about your country and culture.
1. Do people eat meals at different times in different parts of your country?
2. How often do you get takeout or eat on the go?
3. Is it important for families to eat together? Why or why not?

E In pairs, imagine a person from another country is visiting your home for dinner. What do you tell
them about the time, the food, and any other cultural differences?

People eat dinner
at a restaurant in
© National Geographic Learning
Chongqing, China.

26 | UNIT 2

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 18 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 73 ────────

audio as normal and then play it a second time
LISTENING
to check the answers.
WARM-UP 5 min
Listen for time. Listening for times requires
In this lesson, students will need to listen for
students to separate out other information and
different times of the day. Start the lesson by
focus on the numbers. Note that the times might
reviewing telling the time. Students will have
be said in different ways, so students need to be
learned this in earlier levels, but it’s useful to
prepared for this (see Warm-Up).
review and check that everyone remembers. Ask a
student, What time is it? and write their answer on
C Listen again. Circle T for true or F for false. 15
the board. Then ask the class for other ways to say
10 min
it. For example, if a student says one fifteen, elicit
Have students listen to the talk again and decide
alternative ways such as a quarter after one,
if the statements are true or false. Alternatively,
fifteen minutes after one. Briefly try the same
give them time to read the five sentences first
thing with some other times of day.
and guess which will be false before listening
again. Check answers as a class.
A Write down the times you normally eat breakfast,
lunch, and dinner. Then compare your times with
TEACHING TIP: Listening to distinguish
a partner. Are the times similar or very different?
between true and untrue information
Why? 5 min
When students listen to audio, they often have to
Have students write down three different times
listen for correct information. But being able to
and then read the times aloud to their partner.
listen and distinguish between true and untrue or
The two students should compare their answers
irrelevant information is an equally important twentyand discuss any differences. Finally, ask for a
first century skill.
few times from the whole class and see how
similar or different the answers are.
D Work in pairs and discuss the questions about
your country and culture. 10 min
CULTURE TIP: Times for eating
Have students discuss the questions in pairs
Around the world, different nationalities and
or even in small groups of three. At the end,
cultures eat meals at different times, especially the
students should give feedback to the whole
evening meal. The time for breakfast is much more
class on their thoughts about the questions.
consistent from culture to culture but, for example,
lunch in some countries might be as early as noon,
or later at 2 pm. Dinner in some countries is around
E In pairs, imagine a person from another country
6 pm, but in some cultures meals are often much
is visiting your home for dinner. What do you tell
later in the evening. Also note that in some Englishthem about the time, the food, and any other
speaking countries, sometimes people might use
cultural differences? 10 min
the word “dinner” to refer to their lunch. Or they
Tell students to make a list of things to tell a
might say “tea” to refer to their early evening meal
visitor to their country about eating at their
that other cultures would call “dinner.” And a small
house. Afterwards, join pairs into groups of four
evening meal is sometimes called “supper.”
and have them compare their lists.

B Listen for time. Listen to a talk about eating in
EXPANSION: Write an email 20 min
different cultures. Take notes about the dinner
As an extension to E, tell students to imagine that
times in these cultures and countries. 15
someone is coming to stay in their country and
5–10 min
wants to know more about the food and what
If you have a class of students who have
people eat for different meals. Students should write
traveled overseas or who come from different
an email to this person telling them about breakfast,
countries, you could start this exercise by asking
lunch, and dinner, what they should expect to eat,
students to guess the times for dinner in the
© National Geographic Learningand the times of the day people eat. They should
different countries listed. Then play the audio
also write tips for when one is invited to someone’s
and check the predictions. Otherwise, play the
house for a meal.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson B | 26a

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 19 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 74 ────────

PRONUNCIATION TIP: Stress and weak forms
GRAMMAR
in the superlative

WARM-UP 5 min
Draw attention to the stress patterns in superlative
forms. Note that the first syllable is always stressed
It’s useful to review comparative forms of adjectives
in an adjective ending in -est. So you could
from Lesson A before looking at superlative forms
underline the superlative form of the adjectives in
in this lesson. To do this, elicit different foods
the chart like this: oldest, largest, biggest. If it’s an
and drinks and list them on the board. Then elicit
adjective with most, then most is stressed and the
adjectives to describe them and write them on
adjective has the same word stress as normal, like
the board. Next, have students compare different
this: most famous, most relaxing. Also point out that
items from the list using comparative forms. Write
the definite article the, which appears before the
the comparative forms next to the adjectives as
superlative form, is normally unstressed or a weak
students use them. Remind students of the rules
form. The only time we stress it is when we want to
on forming and using the form if they have any
really emphasize the fact that there is only one of
difficulty. At the end, leave the lists on the board, as
something; for example, This is THE most unusual
you will make use of them again in A.
place in the world.

A Read the Unit 2, Lesson B Grammar Reference
B Complete the restaurant profile with the superlative
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
form of the adjectives in parentheses. 10–15 min
the exercises below. 20–30 min
Do the first item as a class, calling on a
Choose three items from the food and drink
volunteer to supply the answer. Point out that this
list on the board and ask a question using a
superlative, the most unusual, did not require a
superlative adjective; for example, Which one is
stem change. Instead, the most was placed in
the healthiest? Which one is the spiciest? Repeat
front of the adjective. Have students explain
with other items. Go over the examples in the
why (it has more than three syllables). Have
chart. Then have students make the superlative
students complete the text individually then
forms of the adjectives on the board from the
compare their answers with a partner. Check
Warm-Up. Write them next to each adjective in
answers as a class.
the list.

Have students complete the exercises on
C Answer the questions with a partner. 10 min
page 189. The Grammar Reference charts
on page 188 include more examples and an
Go over the questions with the class. Tell
explanation of spelling rules, expanding on the
students to read the text in B again if necessary.
information in the chart on page 27. Alternatively,
Assign students to pairs and have them answer
you could have students complete the exercises
the questions. Monitor and help as necessary,
for homework the day before and check
asking follow-up questions to encourage
understanding during class.
students to say more. Compare answers by
calling on students to answer the questions.
Do a quick class survey to find out how many
TEACHING TIP: Quick comprehension checks
people think the restaurant sounds interesting.
During lessons, do quick comprehension checks by
Then call on students to explain why they think it
asking questions about vocabulary words, topics,
sounds interesting, or why not.
and details. Call on students who do not volunteer,
as well as those who do. Provide explanations when
D Work with a partner. Use the adjectives in the
necessary. Rather than repeating information the
box to talk about restaurants and cafes you know.
same way it was said before, say it using simpler
10 min
words or examples that are likely to be familiar to
students.
Point to the adjectives and ask, What restaurants
can you describe using these words? Read
the example, then ask volunteers to provide
© National Geographic Learning
GRAMMAR TIP: Good, better, best
responses. Finally, ask students to work with a
partner to talk about places they know to eat and
Explain to students that some comparative forms do
drink. Monitor and provide more adjectives as
not look similar to the adjective. Give examples like
necessary, writing them on the board for other
good, better, best, along with bad, worse, worst.
students to use. After the exercise, you can
Practice using these words in sentences such as
have students tell you the comparative and
Broccoli is , but carrots are . Celery is the
superlative forms of these adjectives and write
!
them on the board.

27a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 20 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 75 ────────

A diver cleans the windows
of Under, an underwater
restaurant in Lindesnes,
Norway.

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 2, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

THE SUPERLATIVE FORM OF ADJECTIVES
One syllable Two syllables Three or more syllables Irregular forms

old → the oldest    quiet → the quietest comfortable → the most    good → the best
large → the largest spicy → the spiciest    comfortable    bad → the worst
big → the biggest    famous → the most    important → the most important
famous    relaxing → the most relaxing

B Complete the restaurant profile with the superlative form of the adjectives in parentheses.
the most unusual
Are you looking for an interesting place to have a meal? One of (1. unusual)
places in the world is Under, a restaurant in Norway where you eat underwater! Under is actually
the largest
(2. large) underwater restaurant in the world, and many say it is
the coolest    the cheapest
(3. cool) . It’s not (4. cheap) restaurant, but it’s
the best
(5. good) way to see the local sea life. The food is good, too. “I had
the most delicious
(6. delicious) meal of my life,” says one visitor to the restaurant. His girlfriend
the strangest (the) most interesting
agrees. “It was (7. strange) but (8. interesting) dining
experience I ever had!”

C Answer the questions with a partner.
© National Geographic LearningIt is underwater.
1. Why is the restaurant in B unusual?
It’s a good way to see the local sea life; the food is delicious; the experience is
2. Why do people like it?
interesting.
3. Does it sound interesting to you? Why or why not?

D Work with a partner. Use the adjectives in the box to talk about restaurants and cafes you know.
bad cheap noisy    El Taco Loco is the noisiest cafe
boring cool romantic    in this area.

Lesson B | 27

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 21 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 76 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A With a partner, create a menu for a new restaurant or coffee shop. Divide
the menu into sections (appetizers, main dishes, desserts, drinks). Include
the name of the restaurant and the prices.

B Post your menu for the class to see. Then walk around and learn about
your classmates’ restaurants. Answer the questions below.

1. Which restaurant or coffee shop is the cheapest?
2. Which is the most expensive?
3. Which is the healthiest?
4. Which is the most unusual?
5. Which do you think is the best? Why?

C Join another pair and compare your answers from B. Do you all agree on
the best place?

D Read the restaurant review and take notes about the information below.
Then ask and answer questions about the restaurant with a partner.

Amazon Sun
Amazon Sun is the best Brazilian restaurant in this city. The food is
delicious, the service is friendly, and the prices are moderate. One of the
Is it an expensive
tastiest dishes on the menu is the feijoada completa—a traditional dish of
restaurant?
meat, beans, and Brazilian spices. It’s excellent! I recommend you try it!
No, the prices are
Amazon Sun
Restaurant name:
moderate.
Brazilian (food)
Type of food:
moderate
Prices:
friendly
Service:
feijoada completa
Best dish:
USEFUL
EXPRESSIONS
. . . is the best / one of the
E WRITING Choose a restaurant you like and take notes about it using the
best restaurants in . . .
items in D. Then use your notes to write your own restaurant review.
The food is . . .
The service is . . . friendly /
fast / a bit slow.
F Exchange your writing with a partner. Read his or her review.
The prices are . . . high /
1. Are there any mistakes? If yes, circle them.
moderate / cheap.
One of the best / tastiest
2. Take notes about your partner’s restaurant using the items in D.
dishes is . . .
3. Give the review back to your partner. Do you want to try his or her
I recommend you try it!
© National Geographic Learning
restaurant? Why or why not?

2B GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Describe a healthy diet and lifestyle
2. Mostly, yes.
Recommend a place to eat
3. Not yet.

28 | UNIT 2

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 22 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 77 ────────

E WRITING Choose a restaurant you like and
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
take notes about it using the items in D. Then
use your notes to write your own restaurant
WARM-UP 5 min
review. 20–25 min
With the class, list dishes and drinks that students like
to order when they go to a restaurant or coffee shop.
Have students suggest a restaurant that the class
On the board, categorize students’ ideas into the
is familiar with. Model the exercise by having
following: Appetizers, Main dishes, Desserts, Drinks.
students help you complete the notes about that
restaurant on the board. Then have students help
you begin writing a paragraph using the one in D
A With a partner, create a menu for a new restaurant
as a model. Have students choose a restaurant
or coffee shop. Divide the menu into sections
and write their notes, and then have them write
(appetizers, main dishes, desserts, drinks). Include
their paragraph. Monitor and help students with
the name of the restaurant and the prices.
vocabulary and superlative adjectives.
15–20 min

Tell students they will create a menu with a
F Exchange your writing with a partner. Read his or
partner. With the class, review the main sections
her review. 10 min
of a menu and talk about typical menu layouts.
Assign students to pairs and have them exchange
Instruct pairs to decide on the kind of restaurant
papers and read each other’s restaurant review.
or coffee shop they will write a menu for. Then
Then they should correct any mistakes in their
have students brainstorm the names of foods
partner’s review. When correcting, students
that belong to each section and write their lists of
should pay particular attention to adjectives and
foods in the appropriate sections with prices.
superlative adjectives. After they have finished
correcting, students should take notes about
B Post your menus for the class to see. Then
their partner’s restaurant based on the items in D.
walk around and learn about your classmates’
Finally, have them tell their partner if they want to
restaurants. Answer the questions below. 15 min
try their restaurant or not, and explain why. Call on
different pairs to briefly tell the class about their
Students could tape their menus to the wall or
partner’s restaurant, if they want to try it, and why
lay them out on a desk so that everyone can see
or why not.
them. If you are teaching online, students could
post their menus on the class LMS, website, or
blog. Note that students still need to work in their
WRITING TIP: Rewriting 10–15 min
pairs from A as they study the menus and then
An important stage of the writing process is
answer the five questions.
rewriting. After reading their work again and getting
feedback from a peer, as in F, students should
C Join another pair and compare your answers from
be given an opportunity to rewrite their text. This
B. Do you all agree on the best place? 15 min
gives them the chance to correct any mistakes and
generally improve their writing.
Have students work in groups of four and
compare their answers to the questions in
Diagnostics
B. If they have differing opinions, that’s OK;
Check students’ competencies as follows:
they should discuss and give reasons for their
answers. Afterwards, call on different groups to
• Are students able to use food vocabulary and
answer the questions.
create a menu?
• Are they able to describe a restaurant using
superlative forms of adjectives?
D Read the restaurant review and take notes about
the information below. Then ask and answer
• Can they write a short review of a restaurant?
questions about the restaurant with a partner.
10 min
© National Geographic Learning2B
GOALS
Have students read the review and guess any
words they don’t know. Assign students to pairs
Review students’ self-assessment in the goals
and have them complete the notes. Check
box. Point out to students where they learned
answers by having students complete them
these skills in the unit. If they rated their ability
on the board. Read the example question and
below Yes, I can, they can turn back to those
answer with a student. Elicit a few more possible
pages and review the exercises.
questions to review question forms. Then have
Describe a healthy diet and lifestyle:
students ask and answer questions about the
Vocabulary, page 23; Reading, page 25, B–D
restaurant with their partner. Monitor and help
Recommend a place to eat: Grammar,
with vocabulary as necessary.
page 27, B; Active English, page 28, D–F

Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson B | 28a

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 23 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 78 ────────

TEACHING TIP: Meaning through mime
GLOBAL VOICES
and actions

WARM-UP 5 min
With many verbs, it’s quicker to explain the meaning
through miming or acting them out for students. You
Ask students if any of them like cooking. If so, ask,
can also check that they understand the meaning
What do you like to cook? What is your favorite
by saying a verb and having them act it out. You
recipe? Invite one or two students to describe their
can also turn it into a game by having two teams. A
favorite dish to cook and the basic ingredients.
student comes to the front of the class and you give
Use this as an opportunity to check that everyone
him or her a verb to act out. The student acts it out
understands the words recipe and ingredients. You
for their team, who has to guess the correct verb for
could also ask students to say where they normally
a point. Then a student from the other team comes
find new recipes; for example, would they normally
up and tries to act out another verb, and so on.
read a recipe book, visit a cooking website, or
maybe watch a cooking demonstration on TV or
on the internet?
D In pairs, prepare your own cooking demonstration
by following the steps. 20 min
ABOUT THE VIDEO
Before starting this exercise, talk students
The video is a cooking demonstration similar to
through the list of Useful Expressions so they can
those you might see on TV or on the web. The
use them in their own cooking demonstrations.
presenter shows us how to make an omelet and
If you have some students who have never
suggests some different ingredients to use. The
cooked anything or don’t have ideas for a
video provides students with a good model of how
recipe, suggest they choose something simple
to do their own cooking demonstration.
like making a cheese sandwich. In pairs, they
should write out the instructions. Monitor as they
do this and check that they are using the verbs
VIDEO VIEWING TIP: Watching with the
from C correctly. Then they can start to practice
sound off
the demonstration using the Useful Expressions
Sometimes it’s useful to show students a video with
before they present it to another pair.
no sound the first time. That’s because it’s possible
to guess a lot about a video just by watching what is
TEACHING OPTION 10–15 min
happening. Afterwards, students can guess what they
think a speaker is saying, so it’s a useful way to predict
Students could prepare their cooking demonstration
and pre-teach useful language they might hear.
for homework and then perform it for the whole
class at the next session. Encourage them to bring
in the real ingredients or cooking objects like a
A Do you ever make an omelet? Check (✓) the
frying pan. Alternatively, students could record their
ingredients you might use. 5 min
demonstrations at home in their kitchens and then
show the videos in class.
If students have never made an omelet, then
they could try to guess what ingredients go into
the recipe. Invite any students who seem to do
EXTRA! Write a recipe 10 min
their own cooking more often to tell the whole
class what they think should go into an omelet.
Having worked hard on preparing a cooking
demonstration, students could write up the recipe
as if it is on a cooking website or in a book. They
B Watch a video of a cooking demonstration. Which
should list the exact amounts of ingredients and
ingredients in A does he use? 8 min
then a set of numbered instructions. They could
Play the video and have students concentrate on
swap their recipes or share them with each other
which ingredients the speaker uses rather than
on the class website and then try cooking them
worrying about how he makes the omelet.
© National Geographic Learningat home.
C Complete the sentences. Then watch the video
again to check your answers. 5 min
Talk through the verbs in the box before showing
the video again. To show the meaning of these
verbs you might need to act some of them
out, pretending to break eggs or chop onions.
Students can also check the meaning of the
words in a dictionary as they try to fill in the
sentences. Then play the video again and have
students check their answers.

29a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 2, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 24 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 79 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A Do you ever make an omelet? Check (✓) the ingredients you might use.
cheese meat mushrooms onions salt and pepper

eggs milk oil peppers other:

B Watch a video of a cooking demonstration. Which ingredients in A does he use?
eggs, milk, onions, cheese, mushrooms, peppers, oil, salt, and pepper

C Complete the sentences. Then watch the video again to check your answers.
add break chop flip grate heat pour put in

break
1. First of all, I’ll the eggs in this bowl and stir them together.
chop
2. I’ll the onions, the mushrooms, and the peppers.
grate
3. And I need to the cheese.
heat    add
4. I’m going to up this saucepan and a bit of oil.
put in
5. Next, I my onions and peppers and let them cook for a minute or so.
pour
6. Finally, I in the egg mixture and cook it on a lower heat.
flip
7. Some people their omelets over, but I like to fold mine, like this.

D In pairs, prepare your own cooking demonstration by following
USEFUL EXPRESSIONS
the steps.
Today, we’d like to show you one of the
1. Choose a dish to present. Write down the instructions for
best dishes . . .
Let’s start with the ingredients. We
cooking the dish using some of the verbs in C.
have . . .
2. Practice your presentation. You can use real ingredients or
We think the dish is tastier with some . . .
act it out.
First of all, / Next, / After that, / Then, . . .
And finally, it’s ready to eat!
3. When you are ready, join another pair and give your cooking
demonstration.

A potato, onion, and
cheese omelet with
vegetables on the side

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 29

WLTB_L2_U02_ptg01.indd 25 30/04/21 1:11 PM

──────── Page 80 ────────

UNIT 3

3
ABOUT THE PHOTO
This photo was taken by travel
photographer Josselin Cornou.
Josselin took the photo one day
when the sun had set and it
MYSTERIES
was raining heavily. The tunnel
used to be busy when lots of
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
QUESTIONS.
trains traveled through the old
train station in the small town of
1. What do you think is creating the mysterious
light in the photo? Guess.
Helensburgh, in New South Wales,
2. Read the caption. Can you explain this mystery?
Australia. Nowadays, glow worms
3. What other mysteries do you know about? Can
that live in the tunnel create this
science explain them?
beautiful light on rainy days.
WARM-UP VIDEO
INTRODUCE THE THEME
A Watch a video about Frane Selak, “the
In this unit, students will explore
luckiest unlucky man to ever live.” Number the
events in the correct order.
the ideas of luck and mysteries.
This mysterious light is called
7
His car went off a mountain road.
bioluminescence, and it comes
2
In Lesson A, students learn to
He was in a plane crash.
from living things. Here, glow
worms light up an old train tunnel
3
talk about luck and being lucky.
He was in a bus crash.
in Australia so they can catch
1
They also practice the listening
He was in a train accident.
smaller bugs for food.
4
strategies of listening for gist
His car burst into flames.
6
and making predictions, and
A bus hit him.
5
they learn how to say something
His car burst into flames—again.

is likely or unlikely. They then
B Watch again. Match the events in A (1–7)
learn how to use stative verbs
to the reasons why Frane was lucky (a–g).
in order to express states and
2
a. A door blew off, and Frane landed in
emotions and, finally, review all
a haystack.
the language learned in Lesson A
1
b. Frane only broke his arm.
by playing a game of luck.
4
c. Frane jumped free before the car
exploded.
In Lesson B, students learn the
3
d. Four people were killed, but not Frane.
vocabulary for talking about
6
e. Frane survived.
theories and explanations. They
7
f. Frane jumped out and landed in
read about the Nazca Lines in
a tree.
5
Peru, practicing the reading
g. Frane survived, but with less hair.
strategies of making predictions
C In pairs, close your books and retell the
and reading for the main ideas.
story of Frane Selak. Try to remember each
They also listen to a news report
unlucky event and why he was lucky in 2003.
and study the modals of present
He was lucky in 2003 because he won the lottery.
possibility (may, might, could,
can’t ). Finally, they write and
talk about unsolved mysteries,
and watch a video about an
noun, which is mysterious. Invite a
create the mysterious light in
archaeologist who studies
student to make sentences using
the photo.) Finally, for question 3,
mysteries of the past in Egypt.
both forms of the word (e.g., The
discuss other mysteries as a
Loch Ness Monster is a mystery. /
class. Students’ ideas may vary
The story of the Loch Ness
depending on which country
WARM-UP 3 min
© National Geographic Learning
Monster is mysterious.)
or countries they come from,
Write A mystery on the board
but some well-known mysteries
and ask students to try to explain
Look at the photo. Answer the
include the Loch Ness Monster
what it means. If students find
questions. 10 min
in Scotland, the statues on
it challenging, ask them this
Ask students to read question 1
Easter Island, Black Holes in the
question: Is it something we
and look at the photo without
universe, the lost city of Atlantis,
can explain and understand or
reading the caption. Let them
the Nazca Lines in Peru, and
something we cannot explain or
speculate about what is creating
Stonehenge in the UK.
understand? (cannot) Then teach
the light before they read the
students the adjective form of the
caption. (The glow worms

30 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 3

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 2 30/04/21 1:12 PM

──────── Page 81 ────────

WARM-UP VIDEO
About the video
This animated video tells the story
of Frane Selak, a music teacher
from Croatia who has been
involved in a number of serious
accidents and has lived to tell his
story. Selak claims he escaped
death seven times between
1962 and 1996; each time in
accidents involving some form of
transportation. But Selak’s bad
luck finally turned in 2003, when
he bought a lottery ticket and won
the jackpot. Given all these events
in his life, Selak is known as the
“luckiest unlucky man to ever live”!

Warm-Up 5 min
Write the words lucky and unlucky
on the board.
Elicit different examples of what
might happen to both types
of people. For example, lucky
people win money, unlucky
people never win money.

A Watch a video about Frane
Selak, “the luckiest unlucky man
to ever live.” Number the events
in the correct order. 10 min
Give students time to read the
seven sentences. Then check
they understand the meaning
of each sentence. For example,
you might need to explain that
to “burst into flames” is when
something suddenly starts
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
/ Say how likely something is    / Say if something is possible or
burning. Remind them that
/ Talk about states and feelings    impossible
they won’t need to understand
/ Explain a mystery
every word in the video and
that they should be able to
complete the exercise by just
watching the video.
C In pairs, close your books and
EXTRA VIDEO
retell the story of Frane Selak.
VOCABULARY
Try to remember each unlucky
B Watch again. Match the events
bizarre (events)
event and why he was lucky in
in A (1–7) to the reasons why
2003. 10–15 min
brush with death
Frane was lucky (a–g).
© National Geographic Learning
Have students practice
10 min
drown
retelling the story they have
Again, before playing the
escape
watched by remembering the
video, students should read
plummet
events. They can do this by
the events listed and ask about
memory, but another option is
plunge
any unknown vocabulary. If
to play the video again with the
students have understood a
shore
sound off. As students watch
lot from the first viewing, you
the silent video, they can
skid
could have them try to match
describe to their partner what
twist
the sentences before watching.
is happening on the screen
and, in this way, retell the story.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 3 | 31

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 3 30/04/21 1:12 PM

──────── Page 82 ────────

3A YOU’RE IN LUCK!

VOCABULARY

A Read about things people do for good luck. Which do people do in your country?
Do they do any others?

Lucky or Unlucky?

• In some countries, if you see a black
cat by chance, it’s unlucky. But in other
countries, it can bring good luck.

• Eight is the luckiest number in China.
People prefer to have eight in their
telephone number, and people often
live on the eighth floor on purpose.

• Placing your wallet or purse on the
ground in many countries means you’re
more likely to have bad luck with
money.

• Saying the phrases Knock on wood
or Touch wood in a number of
English-speaking countries helps
to avoid bad luck (but only if you
actually knock on or touch real wood
at the same time).

• In the lottery, eleven is the most
Many people throw coins
in the Trevi Fountain in
popular number. More people take
Rome, Italy to bring good
a chance on this number than any
luck and help them return
other—they think it might increase
to the city someday.
their chances of winning!

WORD BANK
B Complete the questions with words in blue from the text.
lucky unlucky
1. Do you think you are a lucky person or are you often
(bring) good luck
unlucky
(avoid) bad luck
? Why?
on purpose by chance
2. Do you ever wear a lucky color or carry a lucky object to
likely unlikely
bring
good luck?
more likely less likely
© National Geographic Learninglikely
take a chance (risk)
3. Are you more to choose a lucky number
increase your chances
purpose
on ?
(opportunities)
take
4. Some people more chances on certain
days. Do you have a lucky day?
Do you do anything
avoid
to avoid bad luck?
5. Do you do anything to bad luck?
Yes, in Italy we say
Touch iron, not Touch
C Ask and answer the questions in B with a partner.
wood, to avoid bad luck.

32 | UNIT 3

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 4 30/04/21 1:12 PM

──────── Page 83 ────────

B Complete the questions with words in blue from
3A YOU’RE IN LUCK!
the text. 10 min
Have students study the words in blue and
VOCABULARY
also refer them to the Word Bank. Clarify the
meaning or use of any phrases if needed and
WARM-UP 5 min
then have students fill in the blanks. Note that
Have students look at the photo of the woman in
some of the words are part of a chunk and
front of the Trevi Fountain in Rome. Ask students
so students should try to learn and use the
to say what she is doing (throwing a coin behind
words as part of a whole phrase such as to do
her) and why (to bring her good luck). Explain that
something on purpose.
people often throw coins in and make a wish and
ask for something special. Ask students what they
TEACHING TIP: Lexical chunks
would wish for if they threw a coin in.
We often teach vocabulary as single-word units;
for example, we might teach the word luck and its
CULTURE TIP: Good and bad luck
meaning. However, the word luck often appears in
Some countries believe in things that bring good or
a lexical chunk such as bring good luck or avoid
bad luck more than others, but most nationalities
bad luck, so when teaching a new word like this,
have some kind of superstition related to this topic.
don’t forget to present it as a lexical chunk with
Sometimes numbers can be lucky or unlucky,
other words that it often appears with.
certain animals or objects are said to bring good
fortune, or an action (like throwing a coin into a
pool) is thought to make a wish come true. If your
C Ask and answer the questions in B with a partner.
students don’t seem familiar with such things in
10–15 min
their own country, ask them to research it online for
Put students into pairs and let them interview
homework, as their own country is bound to have
each other using the questions in B. Then you
some kind of belief in luck.
could put two pairs together to create groups of
four and each pair can report their answers.

A Read about things people do for good luck. Which
EXTRA! Create a vocabulary test
do people do in your country? Do they do any
others? 10 min
To provide more practice with the new vocabulary
on this page, put students in pairs and explain
Have students read about different things
that they are going to create a test for another pair.
people do around the world to bring good luck
They need to choose five new words from the page
and avoid bad luck. Students should underline
(either the words in blue in the text or those in the
key words and check (✓) any of the things that
Word Bank). Then they write five sentences with the
people also do in their country.
five chosen words missing; for example:

TEACHING OPTION: Note-taking 10 min
1. I met my friend in the street today by .
We hadn’t arranged to meet. (Answer: chance)
If you would like to add more structure to exercise A
and use the opportunity for practicing note-taking,
When each pair has five fill-in-the-blank sentences,
draw this table on the board and ask students to
put two pairs together. Pairs will take turns reading
copy it down in their notebooks.
a sentence and, where there is a blank, will say the
word “blank.” The other pair has to listen carefully
What? Why?
and say the word they think is missing. The aim is to
score five points for five correct guesses. 10 min
1.    1.

2.    2.
© National Geographic LearningNOTES
3.    3.

4.    4.

5.    5.

Next, tell students to write short notes in the table
using words from the text. For example, for the first
bullet they would write in column 1 (What?): 1. see a
black cat. And in column 2 (Why?): 2. it’s unlucky or
it brings good luck. At the end, write the answer into
the table on the board or invite students to the front
of the class to complete it.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson A | 32a

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 5 30/04/21 1:12 PM

──────── Page 84 ────────

Have students read the sentences in B again.
LISTENING
Explain that students should be listening to
understand the gist. Play the audio and have
WARM-UP 5 min
students select the correct sentence. Play the
Write Good luck! on the board. Ask students when
audio again if necessary.
they might say Good luck! to someone. Before an
exam? Before dinner? Before watching television?
Listen for gist. Remind students that listening
Before a job interview? When they say Good luck!
for gist means just understanding the main idea,
to someone, what do they mean?
not the details. Therefore they shouldn’t worry
about trying to understand everything they hear,
and they shouldn’t stop listening when they don’t
A PRONUNCIATION: Dropped syllables Say the
understand something.
words. Look up any that you don’t know. Then
listen and repeat. 16 5–10 min
D Make predictions. Read the sentences. Do they
Say the words and have students repeat them.
describe lucky people or unlucky people? Guess.
Have students look up the words they don’t
Write L for lucky people or U for unlucky people.
know, then call on students to explain the
Write B if it is true for both types of people. Then
meaning of each word and give an example.
listen and check your answers. 18 10 min
Play the audio and have students repeat.
Go over the directions and the statements
with the class. Also, draw their attention to the
PRONUNCIATION TIP: Identifying syllables
explanations in the Word Bank. Then have
It’s important that students develop the ability to read
students guess whether each statement refers
and listen to a word and identify how many syllables it
to lucky people or unlucky people, or both.
has when spoken. The difficulty is that it might appear
Compare predictions as a class. Point out the
to have more syllables when written down than when
contrast connector, on the other hand, in the
spoken, so get into the habit of asking them how many
Word Bank and tell students to listen for it. Play
syllables they think a new word has and even writing
the audio and have students confirm or correct
the number in parentheses like this: interesting (3),
their guesses. Play again as necessary and
generally (3), everywhere (3), finally (2). Students also
check answers with the class.
need to be aware that different varieties of English do
not drop syllables consistently and that if they listen
Make predictions. Remind students that
to certain accents, they might hear every syllable
guessing about the topic they are going to hear
spoken. However, when listening to spoken English
about before they listen helps them activate
at a natural speed, the syllables in these particular
vocabulary and language structures they might
words are usually dropped.
hear. This will help them understand more when
they listen.

TEACHING TIP: Boardwork
E Answer the questions with a partner. 10 min
Many teachers keep a list of any new words in a
Go over the directions with students. Make
lesson down one side of the board and then they
sure they understand they need to go back
review these words at the end. If they consistently
to their answer in B and compare it with
have this list on one side of the board, then students
Professor Wiseman’s, which they heard in the
always know that is the new vocabulary they need
audio. Assign students to pairs and have them
to write down. Teachers also need to present the
discuss their answers to questions 1 and 2.
new vocabulary consistently; for example, it’s
Monitor and provide help as necessary. Ask
useful to always write a new word with the stressed
follow-up questions to encourage students to
syllable underlined and the number of syllables
say more. After the discussion, conduct class
indicated, like this: interesting (3).
surveys to find out how many people agree more
with statement 1 or statement 2 in B, and then to
B Read the sentences. Which one do you agree
find out which statements in D students relate to.
with more? Tell a partner. 5 min
© National Geographic Learning
Go over the sentences with the class to check
EXPANSION: Web search
understanding. Then assign students to pairs to
For homework, students could do some research
share their opinions, reminding them to explain
online about a lucky charm that is used in another
their opinion. Monitor and help with vocabulary
culture. Then in the next class session, they could
as necessary.
show pictures of the lucky charms if possible and
present them to the class. 30 min
C Listen for gist. You will hear the beginning of a talk
about psychology professor Richard Wiseman and
his research on luck. Listen. Which statement in
B (1 or 2) does he believe? Circle it. 17 5–10 min

33a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 6 30/04/21 1:12 PM

──────── Page 85 ────────

LISTENING

A PRONUNCIATION: Dropped syllables Say the words. Look up any
that you don’t know. Then listen and repeat. 16

1. interesting 2. generally 3. everywhere 4. finally

B Read the sentences. Which one do you agree with more? Tell a partner.
1. Some people are just lucky in life. 2. You can learn to be lucky in life.

C Listen for gist. You will hear the beginning of a talk about psychology professor
Richard Wiseman and his research on luck. Listen. Which statement in B (1 or 2)
does he believe? Circle it. 17

D Make predictions. Read the sentences. Do they describe lucky
WORD BANK
people or unlucky people? Guess. Write L for lucky people or U for
intuition a feeling that
unlucky people. Write B if it is true for both types of people. Then listen
causes someone to act
and check your answers. 18
in some way without
U
understanding why
1. They spend more time alone.
on the other hand
U
2. They don’t like surprises.
a phrase used to
L
3. They have a lot of friends.
introduce an opposite
(or contrasting) idea
B
4. They make decisions.
L
5. They listen to their own feelings.
B
6. They have bad experiences.
L
7. They try to find the good in a bad situation.

E Answer the questions with a partner.
1. Was your answer in B the same as Professor
Wiseman’s? Do you agree with him now?
Why or why not?

2. Look at the statements in D. Which ones are
true for you?

© National Geographic Learning
In some Asian countries,
these cats are believed to
bring good luck to their
owners.

Lesson A | 33

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 7 30/04/21 1:12 PM

──────── Page 86 ────────

SPEAKING

A Nico and Sandra are talking about a news
article. Listen and answer the questions. 19

Sandra: Anything interesting in today’s news?

Nico: Yeah, I’m reading about a woman
in New York City. She just won $25,000.

Sandra: That’s a lot of money. Did she win the
lottery?

Nico: No, she guessed the correct number of
candies in a jar.

Sandra: Really? How many were there?

Nico: 7,954.

Sandra: Wow. That was a lucky guess!

Nico: I know. I doubt that I could do that!

Sandra: So, what’s she going to do with the
money?

Nico: I don’t know. Perhaps she’ll go on a
vacation or use it for school.

She won
1. What did a woman in New York City do?
$25,000 for guessing the correct number of candies in a jar.
2. What is she going to do now?
Perhaps she’ll go on a vacation or use the money for school.

B Practice the conversation with a partner.
SPEAKING STRATEGY
20

Saying something is likely
C On the lines below, write two things about yourself
I bet (that) Marco plays the drums.
that are true. Write one thing that is a lie.
Marco probably plays the drums.
Maybe / Perhaps Marco plays the drums.

Saying something is not likely
I doubt (that) Marco plays the drums.
You can use Are you sure? to ask if a person
is certain about something.
D Get into groups of three or four people. Follow the
steps below.

1. One person tells the group his or her sentences from C.
I bet Marco plays the drums.
2. The others . . .
I saw him with a pair of
• ask the speaker questions to find out which sentence
drumsticks one time.
© National Geographic Learning
is a lie.
Are you sure they were his
• use the Speaking Strategy to discuss their ideas.
drumsticks? Maybe they
belong to someone else.
• guess which sentence is a lie. If you guess correctly, you
get a point.

3. Switch roles and repeat steps 1 and 2. The person with the most points
at the end wins.

34 | UNIT 3

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 8 30/04/21 1:12 PM

──────── Page 87 ────────

Note: The word lie might be a bit strong for your
SPEAKING
students. Remind them that this is only a game
and it doesn’t need to be a serious lie. If students
WARM-UP 5 min
still feel uncomfortable, suggest that they can
Ask students if they have ever tried to guess, for
say something that is true about someone else
example, how many things are in a bowl or how
and see if others can guess if it is also true
much something weighs. Why were they guessing?
about them.
To win something, or just for fun? Did they guess
the right answer? Do an example with students by
bringing a jar or bowl of candy, buttons, or other
D Get into groups of three or four people. Follow the
small objects, to class and having students guess
steps below. 15 min
how many there are in the jar / bowl.
Read the example with a student. Put students
into groups, and tell them to keep track of their
points. As groups work, walk around, listening
A Nico and Sandra are talking about a news article.
for the expressions in the Speaking Strategy. In
Listen and answer the questions. 19 10 min
Step 1, the student should read the sentences in
Tell students to read the conversation as they
any order (with a straight face).
listen to it. Play the audio once or twice and
Limit the number of questions or the amount
tell students to listen for the answers to the
of time that students have to ask questions in
questions. Discuss students’ answers and play
Step 2. After the two or three students have
the audio again to check them. Then read the
finished asking their questions, they should use
conversation line by line so that students can
the Speaking Strategy expressions to discuss
repeat it.
which sentence they think is a lie. The writer of
the sentences should remain silent during this
PRONUNCIATION TIP: Showing interest
part. Finally, each of the students should make
or surprise
their own guess. They don’t have to agree on the
You could draw students’ attention to the language
same choice. Give a point to each student who
that Sandra uses in the conversation to show
correctly guesses the lie. Add up the points to
her interest and surprise. For example, she uses
find the winner at the end.
phrases like Really? and Wow, and she also asks
When they have finished, have each group share
questions to show interest like, How many were
something they learned about one of their group
there? What’s she going to do with the money?
members with the whole class.
For these words and questions to show interest
and surprise, the speaker needs to exaggerate
the intonation. When students practice the
TEACHING TIP: Helping groups finish at the
conversation, they can try adding this emphasis.
same time

A common situation in group work is that one group
completes the task long before the others—or long
B Practice the conversation with a partner. 5–10 min
after. Here are some approaches you can take with
Have students take a role and practice the
a group that finishes very quickly:
conversation with a partner. Have them switch
• Check to be sure they have understood the task
roles or partners for more practice.
and completed all parts correctly.
• Give them additional questions.
C On the lines below, write two things about yourself
that are true. Write one thing that is a lie. 5 min
• Have the group prepare a written report of their
ideas, answers, etc.
Introduce the expressions in the Speaking
Strategy and say them for the class to repeat.
With a group that finishes more slowly:
Point out that two of the expressions use that,
• Tell them to omit parts of the task.
but that it can also be omitted. Tell students they
• Take over briefly as discussion leader to help
are going to play a game to practice using these
© National Geographic Learningthem move along.
expressions. To bring students’ attention back
to the exercise, read the directions. Tell students
• Set a time limit. Tell them, I’ll ask for your
that they do not have to write anything serious
answers in 5 minutes.
or important for the true and untrue statements.
Give some simple examples to help them get
started, such as, I have two sisters. I was born
in Sydney. I don’t like tomatoes. As students
write, walk around the room, helping with ideas
as needed.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson A | 34a

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 9 30/04/21 1:12 PM

──────── Page 88 ────────

meaning, it’s sometimes fine to say, for example, It’s
GRAMMAR
late. I’m thinking we should take a taxi, or This is so
cool! I’m loving it! The action is taking place very
WARM-UP 10 min
much in the present moment, and the continuous
Tell students to keep their books closed. Read
form expresses this well. The simple present is also
the five sentences in A aloud and have students
correct in these last two examples, of course.
write down what they hear. Repeat the dictation
two or three times and let students compare what
they wrote with a partner. Most of the vocabulary
MORE STATIVE VERBS
in the sentences has previously appeared in this
Thinking    Having    Feeling    Sensing
unit, so it’s a useful review exercise. At the end, tell
verbs    verbs    verbs    verbs
students to open their books to page 35, look at the
agree
keep    adore    feel
sentences in A, and check what they wrote down.
disagree
own    dislike    touch
doubt
possess    (not) mind
A Read the sentences and write the verbs in bold in
imagine
prefer
the grammar chart in B. What verb form is used
realize
value
in all of the sentences? 10–15 min
recognize
want
Have students study the five verbs in bold
and the incomplete grammar chart in B and
remember
then write the verbs in the table in the correct
suppose
category. Make sure they realize these stative
verbs are normally in the simple present. Allow
time for questions and clarification, and remind
C Complete the story with the verbs in the box.
students that they saw the simple present in
Write them in the simple present or the present
Unit 1.
continuous. There is one extra verb. 10 min
Have students choose the correct forms of the
TEACHING TIP: Guided discovery
verbs individually first, and then compare their
answers with a partner’s. Check answers with
On all the grammar pages so far in this book,
the class. Ask a few comprehension questions;
students have been presented with a completed
for example, Does Ian have a lot of money now?
chart and an explanation of the grammar point
Why doesn’t he have a car? Do you think he’s
in the appendix. On this page, the approach is
happy? Point out the adverb, unfortunately, and
slightly different because students are not given
its opposite fortunately, and explain that we
the grammar rule, but are instead “guided” to it
can use them when telling a story to introduce
through a task. Instead of being told the rule, they
something negative, or positive.
are trying to discover it. This is called a guided
discovery approach to teaching grammar, and it’s
useful to gradually introduce students to it so they
D Answer the questions with a partner. 10 min
become more independent as learners. You will
Go over the questions with the class and check
see the same approach used in some other units of
everyone’s understanding. Then assign students
the book where students can start to build on their
to pairs to discuss them. Monitor and help
existing knowledge of the grammar.
with ideas and vocabulary as necessary. Ask
follow-up questions to encourage students to talk
more if necessary. Compare answers as a class.
B Read the Unit 3, Lesson A Grammar Reference
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below. 20–30 min
EXTRA! Winning the lottery
Having completed the grammar chart on this page
The caption in the photo explains that most winners
using the verbs in the sentences from A, point
of lotteries in the UK buy houses. Ask students to
out the use of the simple present, not the present
imagine they have won the lottery. What will they
© National Geographic Learning
continuous, and the note at the bottom of the
buy with the money?
chart. The chart on page 189 has a list of common
stative verbs and detailed usage explanations,
CULTURE TIP: Lotteries
expanding on the information on page 35. Have
students complete the exercise on page 190.
Lotteries are common in many countries and online.
People buy a ticket to have a chance at winning
LANGUAGE TIP: Stative verbs
large cash prizes. Most lotteries are licensed or
run by governments, for which they are a source of
In general, stative verbs are not used in the
revenue. In the United States, there is no national
continuous forms. However, some stative verbs have
lottery, but most states have one, and 40 to 50
non-stative meanings, as well; for example, Are you
percent of adults play regularly.
having a good time? In addition, even with the same

35a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 10 30/04/21 1:12 PM

──────── Page 89 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the sentences and write the verbs in bold in the grammar chart in B. What verb form
the simple present
is used in all of the sentences?

If you see a black cat, it’s unlucky.    He wants to teach you how to be
Unlucky people don’t like surprises.    luckier in life.
Do you believe you are a lucky person?    Do you own a lucky object?

B Read the Unit 3, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises.
Then do the exercises below.

STATIVE VERBS
Thinking verbs Having verbs Feeling verbs Sensing verbs Other verbs
see
think have love 4. need
own like
know 2. 3. taste seem
believe    want / wants
1. belong hate feel 5.
Stative verbs describe states, thoughts, and feelings, not actions. We normally use these verbs in the
simple present, not the present continuous.

C Complete the story with the verbs in the box. Write them in the simple present or the present
continuous. There is one extra verb.

have have know live not believe not own seem think work

seems
For most people, winning the lottery (1.) like the greatest luck. Unfortunately for
the winners, it can be the opposite. Ian Walters won a million dollars five years ago. “Suddenly, you
have    think
(2.) a lot of money, and you (3.) it will last forever,” he explains.
’re having /
“But after a while, you (4.) so much fun that you don’t notice how much you’re
are having
spending on new clothes and expensive vacations! And then, one day, it’s all gone! At the moment,
’m living / am living ’m working /    don’t own
I (5.) with my sister, and I (6.) in a cafe. I (7.) a car
am working don’t believe
because I can’t afford it.” But Ian also says, “It’s not so bad, though. Now, I (8.) that
money can buy you happiness. Family and friends are more important.”

D Answer the questions with a partner.
1. Winning the lottery seems like the greatest    3. Do you believe that money can buy
luck. Do you think this is true? Why or    happiness? Why or why not? If yes,
why not?    how much money?

2. Do you think that money is for spending or
for saving? Why?

According to a UK study, the most popular thing
for lottery winners to buy was a new house.
© National Geographic Learning

Lesson A | 35

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 11 30/04/21 1:12 PM

──────── Page 90 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Work in groups of four. Read the instructions and play the game.

TAKE A CHANCE! A game of luck
1. Each group needs one coin and a game piece for each player. All players put their game pieces
on START. Follow the instructions to see which player goes first.

2. Toss the coin at the start of each turn. For heads, move two squares; for tails, move
one square. When you arrive on a square, read and follow the instructions.

3. On TAKE A CHANCE! squares, speak to another player and use language for describing how
likely / unlikely something is; for example, I bet that . . ., . . . probably . . ., Maybe / Perhaps . . ., I
doubt that . . . If you don’t use this language, you cannot move forward!

Tips for Playing Online

• Keep track of everyone’s place on your own board by using a piece of paper with each player’s name.
• On each TAKE A CHANCE! square, choose a player to guess information about, but remember:
you cannot choose the same person as another classmate.

START    2. LUCKY    3. UNLUCKY    4. TAKE A CHANCE!
1. The youngest player    You find a $10 bill on the    You lose your wallet or    Look at the player on your
goes first. Then he or    street! Move to 4.    purse. Miss a turn.    right. Guess how many
she chooses the order of    brothers and sisters he /
play (who goes second,    she has. If you are correct,
third, and so on).    wait for your next turn. If
not, miss
Maybe you
a turn.
have . . .

5. TAKE A CHANCE!
8. LUCKY    7. UNLUCKY    6. TAKE A CHANCE!
Look at the player on your
Eight is your lucky number! You see a black cat. Miss    Look at the player across
left. Guess how many
Toss the coin again. If it’s    a turn.    from you. Guess how
languages he / she knows.
heads, move to 10. If it’s    many pets he / she owns.
If you are correct, move to
tails, move to 9.    If you are correct, wait for
6. If not, wait here for your
your next turn. If not, miss
next
a turn.
I bet you    I think you
turn.
own . . .    probably know . . .

11. TAKE A CHANCE!    FINISH
10. TAKE A CHANCE!
9. TAKE A CHANCE!
Look at the player across    12. To win, guess if the
Look at the player on your
Look at the player on your
from you. Guess the month coin will land on heads or
left. Guess which color he
right. Guess which day of
of his / her birthday. If you    tails. Now toss it. If you
/ she likes best. If you are
the week he / she prefers.
are correct, go to FINISH.    are correct, you win! If not,
correct, go to 11. If not,
If you are correct, go to 10.
If not, miss a turn.    wait here for your next
wait here for your next
If not, wait here for your
turn.
next turn.
turn.
I think you were
I doubt you prefer . . . ,    Perhaps you    probably born in . . .
I bet the coin will
so . . .    like . . .
© National Geographic Learningland on . . .
3A GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Say how likely something is
2. Mostly, yes.
Talk about states and feelings
3. Not yet.

36 | UNIT 3

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 12 30/04/21 1:12 PM

──────── Page 91 ────────

copy of an open book showing the game in the
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
middle of them.
WARM-UP 5 min
You can explain the rules at the top to the whole
Write the phrase Take a chance on the board
class, but it’s better if you let the group read the
and remind the class they saw the phrase on the
rules and try to work out how to play the game
vocabulary page of this unit. Ask a student to try to
for themselves. This is good reading practice
define it. Then ask students when they sometimes
and it’s an authentic task. Monitor and help with
take a chance (or a risk).
their understanding where necessary. Note that
their “game pieces,” which they place on START,
TEACHING TIP: Games in the classroom
can be anything like a pen cap, a paper clip,
a key ring—anything small that will represent
In Active English in this unit, students play a board
each player as they move around the board.
game in which they begin on a start square and
You might also need to explain how one side of
have to complete a set of tasks to arrive at the
a coin is called “heads” and the other side is
finish square. It is designed so that one student
called “tails.”
in each group will win, but, of course, the most
important part of the game is that students practice
Once the game begins, students will find all the
language from the unit. Playing games like this in the
instructions on each square. Green squares are
classroom has the following benefits:
lucky squares and mean you move forward and
do what is on that next square. Red squares are
• Board games are collaborative and encourage
unlucky and mean you miss a turn. Most of the
students to help each other.
squares are orange Take a Chance! squares.
• They recycle and revise language from the
Students will need to speak when they are on
previous lessons, so students see progress.
these squares and say how likely or unlikely
• They encourage students to take risks with the
something is about another player. If they guess
language.
correctly, they go to another square and wait for
their next turn. If they guess incorrectly, they wait
• Playing a game is an authentic task, so it
for their next turn.
requires extra authentic language practice.
• They are fun and motivating to play, so they
ONLINE OPTION
make the language more memorable.
Note that the game provides extra instructions for
When setting up a board game in class, you could
playing online.
also pre-teach useful phrases for playing a board
game (see Phrases for playing a board game
Diagnostics
below). But, in general, allow plenty of time for
Check students’ competencies as follows:
students to understand each stage and let them try
• Are students able to talk about being lucky and
to work out the rules for themselves. Monitor, but
unlucky?
don’t intervene unnecessarily. As students play the
game, make notes about good use of language that
• Are they able to say if something is likely or
was taught during Lesson A and note any errors for
unlikely?
feedback at the end.
• Are they using stative verbs in the simple present?

PHRASES FOR PLAYING A BOARD GAME
3A
GOALS
Let’s start.
Review students’ self-assessment in the goals
Who’s going first?
box. Point out to students where they learned
It’s my turn. / It’s your turn.
these skills in the unit. If they rated their ability
Pass me the coin / dice, please.
below Yes, I can, they can turn back to those
Toss the coin! / Roll the dice.
pages and review the exercises.
© National Geographic Learning
You have to miss a turn.
Say how likely something is: Vocabulary,
page 32, B–C; Speaking, page 34, A–D;
You have to move forward one square.
Active English, page 36, A
I’m the winner!
Talk about states and feelings: Grammar,
page 35, A–C
A Work in groups of four. Read the instructions and
play the game. 30–45 min
Put students into groups of four. Ideally, students
should sit around a table in a circle with one

Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson A | 36a

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 13 30/04/21 1:12 PM

──────── Page 92 ────────

but, in fact, most students appreciate it as long as
3B UNSOLVED MYSTERIES
it is done quickly with help provided for any words
like proof and theory that are particularly difficult to
VOCABULARY
pronounce.

WARM-UP 5 min
Write dream on the board. Ask students when we
C Complete each question with a word in blue.
dream, what kinds of things we often dream about,
Then ask and answer the questions with a
and if they ever dream in English. Write their ideas
partner. 10–15 min
on the board. Then ask students to open their books
Have students complete the sentences using
and look at the photo at the bottom of the page. Ask
words from the text. Then have them ask and
students what they think about the dream catcher.
answer the questions in pairs. At the end, ask
Do they believe that it helps with good dreams?
students to report back on their answers to the
(There is no correct answer.)
questions.

The answers to questions 1 and 2 are:
A Look at the photo below and the title of the text:
1. The two theories are that dreams deal
Why Do We Dream? Think of an answer with a
with stress and that they clean out unused
partner and tell the class. Then read the text.
information.
10 min
2. Scientists do not have proof for these
Assign students to pairs and have them answer
theories.
the question, Why do we dream? Tell them to take
Students’ answers to question 3 will vary.
notes of their ideas. Compare ideas as a class.
Then ask them to read the text and find out if any
of their ideas are mentioned in the text.
EXPANSION: Write definitions
Afterwards, ask students to summarize the two
Put students in pairs and ask them to choose five of
reasons why we might dream, according to the
the new words in the table in B. Ask them to write
text: Dreams might help stress and they might
definitions in their own words for each word. They
“clean out” the brain. (Neither theory has proof.)
can refer to dictionaries, but you don’t want them
to copy definitions; instead you want them to write
the definitions in their own words, which can also
VOCABULARY TIP: Synonyms
make use of synonyms. For example, for the word
Before starting B, you could ask students to read
figure out, they could write, This word means the
the Academic Skill box about synonyms. Follow
same as to solve something or find the solution to a
up by asking students to provide some synonyms
problem. When each pair has five definitions, have
for simpler words, such as big (large, huge), new
them join another pair and take turns reading out
(modern, up-to-date), or fast (quick, speedy).
their definitions aloud. The other pair should guess
the word. 20 min

B Match the words in blue with the synonyms
below. Some words have the same synonym. Use
WORDS RELATED TO SCIENCE AND
a dictionary to help. 10 min
THEORIES
Have students read the synonyms in the chart.
explain a theory
Then, with their partners, they should read the
text again and complete the rest of the chart
find a solution
with the words in blue. Point out to students that
make a connection between (two things)
it is helpful to identify the parts of speech (verb,
noun, adjective, adverb) so that they can match
provide evidence (for something)
the words. Do an example with them using find
science / scientist
out and study. Ask, What part of speech / kind
solve a problem
of word is it? (verb) Then have students tell you
which words in the chart are also verbs.
© National Geographic Learningsupport your opinion (with proof / evidence)
TEACHING TIP: Listen and repeat

To check students know how to say all the words in
the table, quickly say each word and have students
repeat it. Sometimes teachers think that students
might be bored if they have to listen and repeat,

37a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 14 30/04/21 1:12 PM

──────── Page 93 ────────

3B UNSOLVED MYSTERIES

VOCABULARY

A Look at the photo below and the title of the text: Why Do We Dream? Think of an answer with a
partner and tell the class. Then read the text.

Why Do We Dream?

Everyone dreams, but scientists can’t figure out why. Here are two different explanations.

“Our team is investigating the connection between dreams and our health. Dreams could help
with stress. After we sleep and dream, we feel better.”

“We have a different theory. We believe that dreams might be images in our minds. The brain
‘cleans out’ unused information when we dream.”

Both ideas make sense, but for now there’s no proof for either one. The only way to solve this
mystery is to do more research and collect data.

ACADEMIC SKILL
B Match the words in blue with the synonyms below. Some words
Using synonyms
have the same synonym. Use a dictionary to help.
A synonym is a word or phrase
Synonyms Words or phrases
that has the same or almost the
investigate
figure out
find out, study (v) 1. 3.
same meaning as another word
solve    do research
or phrase. When you learn
2. 4.
more difficult words, match
explanation    theory
a guess, an idea 5. 6.
them with easier synonyms that
make sense
be understandable 7.
you already know. Also, check
proof    data
facts, evidence 8. 9.
the meanings of the new words
in your dictionary.

C Complete each question with a word in blue. Then ask and answer
WORD BANK
the questions with a partner.
have / need / there’s
heories
1. What are the two t about dreams?
(no) proof
roof
2. Do scientists have p for either idea?
have a theory
xplanation
3. In your opinion, which e makes more
ense
s ?

In some Native American cultures,
dream catchers were traditionally
believed to protect children from bad
dreams and give them good dreams.
© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 37

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 15 30/04/21 1:12 PM

──────── Page 94 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5 min
Ask students if they ever visit
museums or if there is a museum
where they live. Ask, What do
these museums show? What are
your favorite objects to look at?
Then ask them what objects and
buildings from the past are too
big for a museum. Write a list on
the board. Answers might include
the Egyptian and Prehispanic
pyramids, Stonehenge, or the
Great Wall of China. Tell students
they are going to learn about
another famous artwork that is too
big for a museum.

A Predict information. Look at
the title and photo and try to
MYSTERIOUS
answer the questions below.
Then read the interview and
check your answers. 10–15 min
ARTWORK
Write the two questions on the
board. Give students 20–30
The Nazca Desert in Peru is home to one of
Dr. Reyes: For years, some people thought
seconds with their books open
the most unusual sites in the world. We talked
visitors from another planet drew them—maybe
to look at the photo and the
with Dr. Gabriel Reyes about the Nazca Lines
because it’s easiest to see the lines from a high
title. Then have them close
and why they are one of history’s greatest
place. But, in fact, the Nazca people created
their books before talking with
mysteries.
the images. They lived in the area from 200 BC
to the seventh century AD and probably made
their partner and answering the
Interviewer: So, Dr. Reyes, tell us:
the drawings over 1,500 years ago.
questions. When pairs have
d
1.
finished talking, call on three
Interviewer: 1,500 years ago?
Dr. Reyes: On the ground in the Peruvian
a
3.
or four students for answers.
desert are hundreds of line drawings of
List the answers on the board.
different animals, humans, insects, and other
Dr. Reyes: They probably used simple tools.
Then tell students to read the
symbols. These drawings, known as the
We believe a team worked together and made
Nazca Lines, are very large. Some are over
the drawings in the desert ground. They didn’t
interview on their own. After
365 meters (1,200 feet) long. You can only see
need airplanes or modern tools.
students have finished reading,
them clearly from a high place, like a plane or
Interviewer: 4.    b
call on volunteers to answer
the mountains nearby.
the questions. Review the
Dr. Reyes: Good question. We can’t be sure,
f
Interviewer: 2.
predictions on the board. Were
but we have different theories. The images
any correct? If so, ask students
who predicted correctly how
38 | UNIT 3
they did it.

Predict information. Remind
students that it is a good idea
200 BC was the first year of the
the answers as a class. You
to look at any visuals that
2nd century BC (200–101). The
could also ask students, Which
accompany a text before they
seventh century AD was the years
was the easiest question to
read and, based on these,
601–700.
place? Which was the most
© National Geographic Learning
think about what information
difficult? Why?
will be in the text. This will make
students more prepared when
Read for main ideas. In
B Read for main ideas. Read the
they read, and more likely to
English, a paragraph
interview again and match the
understand the information.
discusses one main idea in
questions below to the correct
general, and this main idea
spaces (1–5). There is one extra
CULTURE TIP: 200 BC and 7th
is expressed in the topic
question. 10–15 min
century AD
sentence at the beginning
Read the six questions and
of the paragraph. Being
The interview dates the Nazca
have students match the
aware of this will help
people “in the area from 200 BC
questions to the Interviewer
students both in their reading
to the seventh century AD.”
sections. Afterwards, check

38 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 16 30/04/21 1:12 PM

──────── Page 95 ────────

comprehension skills and in
their writing skills.

C The statements below are
wrong. Change them so that
A Predict information. Look at the title and
they are correct. Underline
photo and try to answer the questions
the sentences in the interview
below. Then read the interview and check
that helped you make your
your answers.
changes. 10–15 min
1. What do you think the drawing in the
photo is?
To demonstrate this exercise,
2. Who do you think made it?
ask a student to come to the
front and copy out sentence 1
ACADEMIC SKILL
on the board. Ask the class
Predicting information
to read the answer to the first
You can predict information about an article
using the title or photos. This can help you
question in the text. Then ask
understand the text better as you read it.
students to suggest how this
sentence might be rewritten so
B Read for main ideas. Read the interview
that it’s true. The student at the
again and match the questions below to
front has to make changes to the
the correct spaces (1–5). There is one
sentence on the board. Then,
extra question.
The Nazca Desert
ask students to work alone and
a. How did they make the lines?
in southern Peru
rewrite sentences 2 to 4. At the
b. What was the purpose of the lines?
end, students can compare
c. How are you doing this research?
their rewritten sentences in pairs
d. What exactly are the Nazca Lines?
before you check together as a
e. Can anyone visit the Nazca Lines?
class.
f. Who made the ground drawings?

may be religious symbols. The lines could also
C The statements below are wrong. Change
be a large map; perhaps the Nazca people
TEACHING TIP: Giving more
them so that they are correct. Underline the
used the lines to find water in the desert.
responsibility to students
sentences in the interview that helped you
Or maybe the lines were a type of calendar.
The lines are very large,
make your changes.
and it’s easiest to see them from a high place.
Scientists are still investigating.
Over time, you can give more
1. The lines are small; you can only see
responsibility to students and
c
Interviewer: 5.
them by looking closely at the ground.
let them run parts of a lesson.
2. North Americans probably created the
Dr. Reyes: We are continuing to study maps
lines in the year 1500.
For example, ask a student to
The Nazca People of Peru
of the area and to use photographs taken
(South America) probably created the lines 1,500 years ago.
3. People probably made the lines without
stand at the front of a class and
from planes, but nowadays new technology
People probably made the lines using
simple tools.
do the writing on the board.
is helping us, too. We now have drones1 that
simple tools. They didn’t need to use modern tools.
4. The Nazca Lines definitely were a
can fly much closer and take better photos of
Students often enjoy having this
calendar, say scientists.
the lines. We’re also using photographs from
Maybe the Nazca Lines were a calendar.
kind of role, and this approach to
Scientists aren’t sure; they are still investigating.
satellites,2 so we’re finding new information
classroom management lets you
D Look at the five questions in B. Take turns
every day. 21
stand back and observe students
asking and answering them with a partner.
When you answer a question, use your own
1Drones are flying machines controlled by someone on
more closely.
words. Try not to look back at the article.
the ground.
2Satellites are machines that are sent into space to move
around the Earth.

D Look at the five questions
Lesson B | 39
in B. Take turns asking and
answering them with a partner.
When you answer a question,
use your own words. Try not to
lines? Or should everyone be
the questions, they should
look back at the article.
concentrate on remembering
able to see them?
15–20 min
keywords and facts, not a
2. It is possible that the Nazca
whole sentence. They should
© National Geographic Learning
Put students into pairs. One
Lines were made just to be
then explain the fact or idea in
student is the journalist
beautiful. Do you think this is
their own words.
asking the five questions
likely?
and the other student is the
expert who tries to answer
EXTRA! Discussion
3. Some people believe that
the questions. Afterwards,
questions
places like the Nazca Lines
students can change roles
and the Pyramids were made
1. The Nazca Lines are in danger
and try the role play again.
by visitors from another planet.
Tell students that when they
from tourism. There is no way
are trying to remember parts
Do you think this is true? Why
to protect them. Is it important
of the interview to answer
or why not?
to keep tourists away from the

Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson B | 39

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 17 30/04/21 1:12 PM

──────── Page 96 ────────

LISTENING

A Make predictions. Look at the photo below. What do some people
WORD BANK
think about a full moon?
If something affects you,
Some people think that more people act in a strange or dangerous way with a full moon.
it causes you to change in
some way.
B Listen for main ideas. Listen to the news report. Then read the
behavior the way you act
sentences and circle T for true or F for false. 22

1. City officials plan to put more police on the streets when there’s a
full moon. T F

2. City officials say there are more car accidents and people hurt in fights on these nights. T F
3. The woman and the man agree about whether the moon changes people’s behavior. T F

C Listen for details. Read the questions and answers. Then listen again and check (✓) Yes or No,
and complete the chart. 22

Does the moon affect
our behavior? What’s the person’s theory?
oceans
The moon affects the .
✓    people
1. the woman Yes No
Maybe it affects , too.
light
On full moon nights, there’s more ,
✓    go out
2. the man Yes No
so more people .

D Answer the questions with a partner.
1. What do you think? Can the moon change our behavior?
2. Can you think of any other explanations for the higher crime and accident rates?

A full moon over the Acropolis
in Athens, Greece

© National Geographic Learning

40 | UNIT 3

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 18 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 97 ────────

LANGUAGE TIP: affect and effect
LISTENING
Students will hear the word affect in the listening
WARM-UP 5 min
and it is also defined in the Word Bank. They might
confuse it with the word effect. Normally, we use
Ask students if they have heard stories about
affect as a verb: The moon affects our behavior. It
people acting differently when the moon is full. What
means to produce or cause change. We normally
have they heard? Have they experienced or seen
use effect as a noun: The effect of the moon is
anything themselves?
strange when it is full. It means result. Note that
there are exceptions and you might see effect
CULTURE TIP: The moon
used as a verb as well as a noun, but at this level,
it’s better for students to use effect as a noun and
In history, and in different cultures, the moon has
affect as a verb. Point out that native speakers of
different meanings and associations. In some past
English also get them confused!
cultures, the moon had a religious meaning and
was a type of god. The moon is also romantic in
some cultures and it is mentioned in poetry and
C Listen for details. Read the questions and
song lyrics. The moon also appears in many horror
answers. Then listen and check (✓) Yes or No,
and ghost stories. In traditional Chinese texts, the
and complete the chart. 22 10–15 min
full moon is connected with peace and family. Many
Go over the chart with students. Play the audio,
cultures talk about “the man in the moon” because
then give students time to complete the chart
of the face you can see sometimes. Since humans
before they compare with a partner. Play the audio
landed on the moon in the 1960s, we tend to think
again and check answers with the class.
about the moon as a place that humans might visit
and live on in the future.
Listen for details. Remind students that they
can understand details without understanding
everything they hear. Focusing on details is
A Make predictions. Look at the photo below. What
a good strategy to use when they need to
do some people think about a full moon? 5 min
understand specific information from something
Discuss this question as a class. Ask students
they are listening to, not just the general idea.
what they think and extend the discussion by
asking students if the moon is important in
D Answer the questions with a partner. 10 min
their culture; for example, ask, In history, what
Go over the questions with the class, then give
did people think about the moon? Does the
students a couple of minutes to think about their
moon often appear in stories and books in your
answers and make some notes. Assign students
country?
to pairs and have them discuss their answers to
Make predictions. Remind students that
the questions. Compare answers as a class.
guessing about the topic before listening
activates vocabulary and language structures
EXPANSION: Write a news report
that will be useful when they listen. Students
are likely to be more successful if they have the
Either in class or for homework, ask students
opportunity to activate prior knowledge before
to write a 100-word news report based on the
they listen.
information they heard in the audio. They will need
to write an interesting headline and then summarize
the main ideas and information from the audio. If
B Listen for main ideas. Listen to the news report.
necessary, play the audio again to help them, but
Then read the sentences and circle T for true or F
they should also have enough information in B
for false. 22 10 min
and C to complete this task.
Give students time to read and check their
understanding of the three sentences. Also refer
students to the Word Bank, which helps with the
meaning of two words. Then play the audio twice
© National Geographic Learning
and check the answers together as a class.

Listen for main ideas. When playing audio
for the first time, encourage students to listen
only for key words and to concentrate on what
they understand rather than what they don’t
understand. One alternative is to tell students
to keep their books closed and simply listen. As
they listen, they can write down any words they
recognize and then compare with a partner.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson B | 40a

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 19 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 98 ────────

C Read each situation. Write two possible explanations
GRAMMAR
for each one in your notebook. 10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Students should work alone to prepare possible
explanations for each of the four items. Monitor
Remind students of the reading about the Nazca
students, checking the use of modals and
Lines and ask the following question about the
making suggestions where necessary. Some
Nazca Lines: What is their purpose? Write students’
possible explanations are:
suggestions on the board. Then ask, Are you sure?
Students should answer yes or no. Ask, What is the
1. She might be at work and can’t answer the
Loch Ness Monster? (Show or draw a picture as
phone. / The battery may need charging.
necessary.) Ask, Are you sure?
2. I might have a birthday present. / It could be
a prize!
A Read the Unit 3, Lesson B Grammar Reference
3. She might be ill. / Her car may have broken
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
down.
the exercises below. 20–30 min
4. It might be a spaceship. / It could be a
Go over the examples in the chart. Then have
drone.
students make sentences about the Nazca Lines
using modal verbs and the ideas on the board
D Work with a partner. Follow the steps below.
from the Warm-Up. Write them on the board.
10–15 min
Have students complete the Grammar Reference
You could choose a student and demonstrate
exercises on pages 190–191. The grammar
the steps by building the conversation together.
charts on page 190 include usage explanations
Also, point out the example conversation for
and further examples, expanding on the
situation 1 at the bottom of the page. Then put
information in the chart on this page.
students into pairs and have them start their
conversations.
B Complete the conversations with a modal and
a verb, if needed. Sometimes, more than one
TEACHING OPTION: Writing
answer is possible. Then ask and answer the
conversations first
questions with a partner. 10 min
If you think students might find a speaking exercise
Assign students to pairs and have them read
challenging at first, such as the exercise in D,
and complete the conversations together.
put students in pairs and have them write the
Remind them to use the chart on page 190 to
conversation. This gives them time to think about
help them. Check answers with the class.
what they should say and how to use the target
language correctly. Once they have written out the
GRAMMAR TIP: Modals of present possibility
conversations in full, they can practice reading
Modals express a speaker’s attitude or opinion
the conversations aloud. Finally, ask them to cover
about a situation. Because two speakers may feel
their written conversations and try to perform them
differently about the same situation, it is difficult to
without looking at their writing.
learn the precise meanings of modals by listening
to native speakers. Although they often use may,
NOTES
might, and could slightly differently, this is not
necessary for efficient communication. Also remind
students that modal verbs do not follow the rules of
other verbs: There is no third person form, so you
do not add -s to the he / she / it form. Also, there is
no past or future form of a modal verb.

EXTRA! Ask your partner the questions
© National Geographic Learning
As an extension to B for more practice, put students
in pairs and tell them they will again take turns
asking the three questions about life on other
planets, why bees are dying, and whether ghosts
are real. This time, students should think of their
own answers to these questions and use modals of
present possibility in their answers. 10 min

41a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 20 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 99 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 3, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
exercises. Then do the exercises below.

MODALS OF PRESENT POSSIBILITY

Subject Modal Main verb

Dreams may / might / could help with stress.

Scientists can’t be sure.

Questions and short answers

Are dreams images in    They may / might / could be.
With be
our minds?    No, they can’t be.

They may / might / could.
With other verbs Do dreams help with stress?
No, they can’t.

B Complete the conversations with a modal and a verb, if needed. Sometimes, more
than one answer is possible. Then ask and answer the questions with a partner.

1. A: Does life exist on other planets?
WORD BANK
may / might / could
B: It . There are billions of planets.
pesticide a chemical used
may not /
We be the only intelligent life.
to kill insects
might not
2. A: Worldwide, millions of bees are dying. Scientists can’t figure
out why. What’s happening?
may / might / could    may / might / could
B: Pesticides be killing the bees. But it
be climate change, too.

3. A: Are ghosts real?
may be / might be /
B: Well, they . A lot of people see them.
could be
can’t be
C: No, they . There’s no scientific proof for them.

C Read each situation. Write two possible explanations for each one in your notebook.
1. Your friend isn’t answering her phone.
2. You received a mysterious package in the mail.
3. The teacher isn’t here today.
4. You can see a strange blue light in the night sky.

D Work with a partner. Follow the steps below.
1. Student A: Tell your partner one situation from C. Use I and my.
2. Student B: Give a possible reason, using one of your sentences from C.
© National Geographic Learning
3. Student A: Answer with can’t or a different possibility.
4. Student B: Agree or give another possibility.
5. Switch roles and repeat steps 1–4 for the other situations in C.
My friend isn’t    It can’t be. She called
answering her phone.    me a minute ago.

Her phone    Oh, then she
might be off.    may be . . .

Lesson B | 41

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 21 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 100 ────────

Could the Yonaguni
Monument near
Japan be an ancient
underwater city or
just some interesting
rocks? What do you
think?

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Look at the photo. Then turn to the Unit 3 Writing appendix and read about two mysteries.
Underline the theories and explanations in each text.

The Marfa Lights
B In pairs, think of one more explanation for each mystery. Then join
might be lights
another pair and present your new theories. Discuss your ideas and
from drones.
try to agree.
No, they can’t
be because . . .

C Complete this paragraph with phrases from the Useful Expressions.
USEFUL EXPRESSIONS
believe    that
Many scientists (1.) life might
Giving an opinion
exist on other planets. There are more than 100 billion other
Many scientists believe that . . .
planets in the universe and many are similar to Earth.
Some people think that . . .
In fact
(2.) , scientists recently found
Experts say . . .
The
that there may be billions of similar planets. (3.)
Stating facts and evidence
evidence
In fact, . . .
also shows that many of these planets might
It’s    likely
The evidence also shows that . . .
have water. (4.) that there could
Research tells us . . .
be life on some of them.
Possibility
It might / could / may . . .
D WRITING Choose another mystery from the list below or your
Scientists can’t be sure that . . .
own idea. Research the mystery and write a paragraph to provide
Conclusion
a possible explanation. Use the Useful Expressions.
It’s likely that . . .
Maybe one day we will solve . . .
• Are ghosts real?
We need to do more research.
• Is the Loch Ness Monster real?

• How did the dinosaurs die out?

• Your own idea:

E Exchange paragraphs with a partner. Which Useful Expressions did your partner use? What
© National Geographic Learning
theories or explanations does the paragraph describe?

3B GOALS Now I can . . .

Say if something is possible or impossible    1. Yes, I can.
2. Mostly, yes.
Explain a mystery
3. Not yet.

42 | UNIT 3

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 22 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 101 ────────

complete the paragraph. As an extension, you
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
could also ask students to turn back to the
Writing appendix and reread the paragraphs
WARM-UP 5–10min
about the Yonaguni Monument and the Marfa
Review the grammar from the previous page by
Lights. Tell them to underline any useful
drawing a mysterious line on the board. It can be
expressions they find in those two paragraphs
any shape and any size you like; for example, a
that they might use in their own writing.
line like this:

D WRITING Choose another mystery from the list
below or your own idea. Research the mystery
and write a paragraph to provide a possible
Ask some students to speculate what it might /
explanation. Use the Useful Expressions. 10 min
may / could be: It might be a nose, it could be a
bend in a road, it may be a cup handle. Then ask
Have students choose one of the suggestions
them to copy the line on a sheet of paper and draw
listed and research it if necessary, or one of
in the rest of the image. Students should then show
their own ideas, such as a mystery in their own
their new image to other students, explaining what
country. You could show them how to begin the
they drew.
paragraph with a “Giving an opinion” expression
and their topic; for example, Some people think
that ghosts are real . . . / Many scientists believe
A Look at the photo. Then turn to the Unit 3
that dinosaurs died out from an asteroid hitting
Writing appendix and read about two mysteries.
the Earth . . .
Underline the theories and explanations in each
text. 15–20 min
E Exchange paragraphs with a partner. Which
First of all, tell students to look at the photo and
Useful Expressions did your partner use? What
read the caption. Ask them to try to answer the
theories or explanations does the paragraph
questions about the rocks in the photo.
describe? 10 min
Assign students to pairs. Have them evaluate
Then have students turn to the Writing appendix
each other’s paragraph. They should look
and read the two paragraphs; one is about
for examples of useful expressions but also
the Yonaguni Monument and the other is about
learn about the mystery, with its theories and
the Marfa Lights. The theory in the text about the
explanations that their partner describes.
Yonaguni Monument is that it is from an ancient
underwater city. For the Marfa Lights, one
Diagnostics
explanation is that they could be lights from cars
or planes, and another theory is that they might
Check students’ competencies as follows:
be from aliens.
• Are students able to talk about theories and
explanations?
B In pairs, think of one more explanation for each
• Are they able to use modals of present
mystery. Then join another pair and present your
possibility?
new theories. Discuss your ideas and try to agree.
• Can they write a paragraph about a mystery?
15 min

Have students start by working with a partner and
speculating about other possible explanations for
3B
GOALS
the two mysteries. If any students have trouble
Review students’ self-assessment in the
thinking of new explanations, you could prompt
goals box. Point out to students where
them with ideas such as the Yonaguni Monument
they learned these skills in the unit. If they
being built by the Egyptians, or that it’s part of
rated their ability below Yes, I can, they can
the ancient city of Atlantis. The Marfa Lights
turn back to those pages and review the
could be something to do with the weather, some
© National Geographic Learning
exercises.
stars, or a drone flying around. Once students
Say if something is possible or impossible:
have thought of one or two explanations for
Grammar, page 41, A–D
each mystery, they should join another pair and
compare their ideas. Encourage them to try to
Explain a mystery: Vocabulary, page 37,
use modals of present possibility.
C; Reading, page 39, A–D; Active English,
page 42, A–E
C Complete this paragraph with phrases from the
Useful Expressions. 15 min
Have students read the list of Useful Expressions
to write a paragraph. Then have students

Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson B | 42a

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 23 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 102 ────────

answers, make sure students can say why a
GLOBAL VOICES
sentence is false and explain what it should say
in order to be true.
WARM-UP 5 min
Write Egypt in the middle of the board and
brainstorm words connected with it. If students are
C Answer the questions for yourself. Then work in
slow to make suggestions, ask questions such as,
groups and share your answers. 10–15 min
What ancient buildings is Egypt famous for? Who
Have students begin by working alone and
were its ancient kings and queens? What does
writing down short answers to each question
the land look like? Then show students the photo
so that they will be able to talk about them in
of Nora Shawki in Egypt at the bottom of the page
groups. Allow about five minutes for this stage.
and explain that they are going to watch a video
Then put students into groups of three or four
about her. Ask a student to try to explain what an
and have them share their answers with each
archaeologist does.
other. At the end, the group can report back
some of its most interesting findings, such as
historical objects people have at home and what
ABOUT THE VIDEO
kind of passions people have in life.
The video looks at the work of archaeologist Nora
Shawki. Nora is a National Geographic Explorer
and an Egyptian archaeologist. She has worked
LARGE CLASS OPTION
in the Nile Delta region of Egypt and Sudan. In the
In a large class, it might be impractical for groups
video, Nora explains that she specializes in looking
to report back to the whole class. As an alternative,
at the lives of ordinary people rather than kings and
join two groups together and have them take turns
queens. She also talks about the importance of
reporting back to each other.
working with a team of people and says that a large
amount of her time is spent in a laboratory rather
than always working outside.
EXTRA! A show-and-tell presentation
As a follow-up task to C, students could prepare
show-and-tell presentations at home on either one
A Watch a video about National Geographic
of these topics:
Explorer Nora Shawki and number the items
(1–6) in the order you see them. 10 min
• A historical object from their home (e.g., an
Students need time to read the six phrases
old photo)
before watching the video. Check their
• Their passion in life (e.g., a sport or hobby)
understanding of the phrases. They will need to
Tell students their talk must last no more than
refer to the Word Bank for explanations, but may
two minutes and that they should explain what the
also have questions about certain words. Note
object or their passion is, where the object came
that when they watch the video, the meaning
from or how often they do their passion, and finally
of certain words will also be clarified by seeing
why the object interests them or why they love their
examples of, for example, statues and a skeleton.
passion. You could also provide these expressions
to help them:
VIDEO VIEWING TIP: Sequencing exercises
Today I’m going to talk about . . .
Rather than concentrate on the main details when
you first show a video, make use of the fact that
The object is . . . / My passion is . . .
different things will appear in a sequence when
It comes from . . . / I often do / play . . .
watching it. By listing and mixing up some of the
main events or the main images in the video, and
The reason it’s important to me is because . . .
then asking students to watch and number them in
Also, ask students to bring in one visual aid for their
order, you help students understand how the video
talk. For example, it might be a photo of the object
is structured and understand the gist of the video.
or a picture of them doing their passion. If you have
Exercise A is an example of this, but you can try it
a large class, you could have two students give their
with other videos as well.
© National Geographic Learningpresentation at the beginning of each class rather
than fitting lots of talks into one class session.
B Watch the video again. Read the sentences and
circle T for true or F for false. 10 min
Students can either watch and answer, or you
could have them read the sentences and try
to guess the answers based on their first
viewing in A. Then let students watch again
to check their answers. When checking the

43a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 3, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 24 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 103 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A Watch a video about National Geographic Explorer Nora Shawki
WORD BANK
and number the items (1–6) in the order you see them.
When you excavate a site
1    for artifacts, you dig in an
a. statues of the pharaohs
area of land for old objects.
3
b. the Egyptian pyramids
To wonder means to want
4
c. a statue of Queen Cleopatra
to know something.
2
d. an archaeologist excavating in the sand
6
e. a skeleton and a blue stone
5
f. Nora on a site with her team looking for artifacts

B Watch the video again. Read the sentences and circle T for true or F for false.
1. King Tut and Queen Cleopatra lived more than 2,000 years ago. T F
2. Nora Shawki is most interested in famous people like the Egyptian pharaohs. T F
She’s interested in ordinary people who lived in ancient times.
3. Nora usually digs for artifacts on her own. T F
She works with a team.
4. Most of her work is done inside a lab where she does research. T F
5. She prefers working outside, digging for ancient things in the dirt. T F
6. One of the coolest things she ever found was a skeleton with a necklace made of gold. T F
The necklace was made of a precious stone called lapis lazuli.
7. Nora believes if we know more about history, we can learn more about who we are today. T F
8. Nora thinks everyone should follow their passion in life. T F

C Answer the questions for yourself. Then work in groups and share your answers.
1. Do you ever wonder about history? Which part of history are you most interested in? Why?
2. What is the oldest object in your house? Where did it come from?
3. Do you think it is important to know about history? Why or why not?
4. Do you agree with Nora that everyone must follow their passion? Why or why not?
5. What is your passion in life? How can you follow it?

Nora Shawki studies the
mysteries of the past as an
archaeologist in the Nile
Delta of Egypt.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 43

WLTB_L2_U03_ptg01.indd 25 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 104 ────────

REAL WORLD LINK CREATE A TV QUIZ SHOW

A diver explores a shipwreck
in the Bermuda Triangle.

Who will be the next lucky winner in this quiz?
The harder the question, the more money you win!

PEOPLE FOOD    PLACES

$100 $100 $100

2. What word beginning with
3. What word beginning
1. What word beginning
the letter v is something you
with the letter d is a very dry
with the letter n means the
should eat plenty of to be
place?
person who lives next door
healthy?
to you?

$250 $250 $250

6. The Bermuda Triangle is
4. Percival R. Lugue has
5. Which country has the
a mysterious place where
one of the biggest toy
national dish of momos
planes and ships disappear.
collections in the world with
served with a spicy sauce?
Where is it?
14,500 toys. Where did he
a. Nepal
get them?
a. The North Atlantic Ocean
b. Scotland
a. In cereal boxes
b. The South Pacific Ocean
c. Vietnam
b. With fast food meals
c. The Black Sea
c. From toy stores
© National Geographic Learning
$500 $500 $500
9. The largest cooking
7. The unluckiest driving
8. Josué Montero Durán holds
lesson in the world was in
the world record for eating the
student came from South
China. How many students
most hot dogs in three minutes.
Korea. How many times did
were there?
How many did he eat?
she fail her test?
a. 634
a. nine
a. 59 times
b. 6,334
b. nineteen
b. 590 times
c. 63,340
c. ninety
c. 959 times

44 |44 UNITS 1–3

WLTB_L2_RWL01_ptg01.indd 2 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 105 ────────

C In groups, think of some quiz shows on TV and
REAL WORLD LINK: CREATE
answer the questions about them. 10 min
A TV QUIZ SHOW, Units 1–3
Refer students to the meaning of the words
host and contestants in the Word Bank. Model
WARM-UP 5 min
the exercise by choosing a TV quiz show that
Write TV on the board. Ask students, What type of
you know about and explaining how the quiz
TV shows do you watch? Write their answers, which
works by answering the six questions. Then put
might include News, Sports, Music, Comedy, etc.
students into groups and have them talk about
If your students don’t watch much TV, write down
quiz shows they know about. If some of your
what they watch on YouTube. If no one mentions
students don’t watch quiz shows on TV, suggest
Quiz Shows, write it on the board and make sure
they think of any quizzes or board games that
everyone understands what type of program it is.
they have played with family and friends and
explain how they work.
CULTURE TIP: TV around the world

Many TV programs are now shown internationally
NOTES
in different languages and the format of many quiz
shows is the same from country to country. The quiz
on this page isn’t a specific TV quiz show, but it’s
similar, with general knowledge questions in three
different categories. As the questions become
harder, students will win more money.

A In pairs, guess the answers to the nine quiz
questions. Then check your answers at the
bottom of the page and find out how much money
you won! 5–10 min
Remind students not to look at the answers at
the bottom of the page. After they have tried
to answer the questions, they can check their
answers and add up the amount they won.

TEACHING OPTION 10 min
You could set up exercise A like a TV quiz show.
Tell students to keep their books closed and create
two or three teams in the class. Ask the first team to
choose a topic from People, Food, or Places, and a
question worth $100, $250, or $500. If they answer
the question correctly, write the amount of money on
the board and do not ask that question again. If they
don’t answer correctly, the question can be reused.
Next, ask another team to choose a topic and an
amount. Continue until all the questions have been
answered correctly.

B Answer the questions as a class. 5–10 min
Invite students to answer the questions and
© National Geographic Learning
express their opinion about whether a question
was the easiest or the hardest. Remind students
that they are recycling the superlative forms from
Unit 2.

Teacher’s Book UNITS 1–3 | 44a

WLTB_L2_RWL01_ptg01.indd 3 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 106 ────────

D Work in the same group and follow the steps
NOTES
below. 10–15 min
Have the groups from C start to plan their own
TV quiz show. Some groups might want to base
it on an existing TV quiz show, while others
might want to create something completely new.
Students can research the questions online or
use their own general knowledge. They could
also look back through Units 1 to 3 and base
the questions on the topics, texts, and language
in each unit. Monitor the groups and check that
they have planned every step of the quiz. The
main language focus is on speaking practice
to complete an authentic task, so don’t correct
them at this stage. However, once students have
written their quiz questions, they should check
these carefully for accuracy and may need your
support.

TEACHING OPTION
If necessary, assign the task in D for homework so
students can research the questions from home and
prepare them for the next class session.

E You Choose With your group, choose an option
and follow the steps. Use the Useful Expressions.
10–15 min

There are three ways to set up the quizzes.
Either let students choose which option to do or
you might have to decide for them depending
on your classroom context. Option 1 will work
well with a class of about 20 students at most
and plenty of space to move chairs and tables
around. Option 2 will work with larger classes
because students only write their questions
and then exchange them with one other group.
Option 3 will probably need to be done as a
homework task. It is also a good option if you
are teaching online because students can
share their screens and play the slideshow or
video. Try to let each group take responsibility
for running the quiz. As you observe the quiz,
note any common errors you hear, particularly
with language that has been presented in
Units 1 to 3.

F Compare the different quiz shows. Which team
prepared the hardest questions? Which quiz
© National Geographic Learning
show was the most fun? 5–10 min
Discuss the feedback questions as a class. At
this stage you could also give feedback on any
effective use of language from the teams. Write
any common errors that you heard on the board
so students can correct their own mistakes.

45a | Teacher’s Book UNITS 1–3

WLTB_L2_RWL01_ptg01.indd 4 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 107 ────────

UNITS 1–3
The answer to question
A In pairs, guess the answers to the nine quiz questions. Then check
five might be Scotland.
your answers at the bottom of the page and find out how much
money you won!
I don’t think that’s likely
because the food in
B Answer the questions as a class.
Scotland isn’t very spicy!
It could be . . .
1. Who won the most money in A?
2. Which question was the easiest for everyone?
3. Which question was the hardest? Did anyone answer it correctly?

WORD BANK
C In groups, think of some quiz shows on TV and answer the questions
On TV quiz shows, the
about them.
host asks the questions
and the contestants
1. What is the name of the TV quiz show?
answer them.
2. What are the rules?
3. What kinds of questions does the host ask?
4. How many contestants are there?
5. How do you score points?
6. What prizes do the winners receive?

D Work in the same group and follow the steps below.
1. Plan your own TV quiz show and decide . . .
• the name of the show and the rules.
• the types of questions the host needs to ask.
• the number of contestants.
• how contestants score points and what prizes they win.
2. Go online to research and prepare around ten quiz questions. Use the topics of
people, food, and places.

USEFUL EXPRESSIONS
E You Choose With your group, choose an option and follow the
The host
steps. Use the Useful Expressions.
Here’s your first question. What . . .?
Option 1: Organize the class like a TV quiz show. The people
For one hundred dollars, who . . .?
Your time is almost up.
in your group are the hosts and ask the questions.
Is that your final answer?
The other groups are the contestants.
That is correct! Well done!
Option 2: Write out your quiz questions and then exchange
I’m sorry, but that is the wrong
with another group. Take turns answering quiz
answer.
© National Geographic Learning
The contestants
questions and giving the correct answers.
It could be . . .
Option 3: Make a slideshow or video with the questions to
We think it might be . . .
show the class. Have your classmates guess the
We agree that . . .
answers as contestants. At the end, go over the
Our answer is . . .
correct answers.

F Compare the different quiz shows. Which team prepared the hardest questions?
Which quiz show was the most fun?
1. neighbor 2. vegetable / vegetables 3. desert 4. b 5. a 6. a 7. c 8. a 9. b

4545

WLTB_L2_RWL01_ptg01.indd 5 30/04/21 1:08 PM

──────── Page 108 ────────

UNIT 4

4
ABOUT THE PHOTO
This photo shows the West
Edmonton Shopping Mall in
Edmonton, Canada. It is the
largest shopping mall in North
TRENDS
America and one of the largest
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
in the world. As well as having
QUESTIONS.
over 880 stores on three floors, it
1. Would you like to go shopping in a place like
also has two hotels, 100 places to
this? Why or why not?
eat, parking for 20,000 cars, and
2. A trend is a change in which something is
becoming more common or popular. What
attractions including a waterpark,
shopping or fashion trends do you know about?
an ice rink, a racetrack with
electric go-karts, and a theme
WARM-UP VIDEO
park with rides.
A Watch a TV news report about a new type of
shopping mall with entertainment. Check (✓)
the types of entertainment you see.
INTRODUCE THE THEME
✓
movie theater    ice skating rink
In this unit, students will explore the
✓
roller coasters    football game
concepts of trends and fashion.
✓    ✓
indoor wave pool    ski slope

In Lesson A, students watch
B Watch the video again. Read the statements
a video about a new type of
and circle T for true or F for false.
shopping mall. They then learn
1. The name of the new mall is T F
to interpret charts and numbers,
American Dream.
and describe trends. They also
2. Don Ghermezian owns the mall T F
(with his large family)
by himself.
practice listening for details
3. Don likes to call the mall “an T F
and for numerical information
experiential center.”
and they learn how to express
4. This is Don’s family’s first T F
disagreement and describe
shopping mall.
(they have two others)
quantities.
5. In American Dream, there’s about T F
75% retail and 25% entertainment.
(45% retail, 55% entertainment)
In Lesson B, students learn
6. Nowadays, Don thinks it’s a struggle* T F
The West Edmonton Mall
to describe clothing styles
to make money from retail.
in Canada has two hotels,
and trends. They read about
*A struggle is a difficulty, something needing effort.
an indoor water park, an
the trend of fast fashion and
aquarium, and a mini golf
C Discuss the questions in pairs.
course in addition to its over
consider its pros and cons.
eight hundred stores.
1. Are malls or shopping centers popular in
They also practice the listening
your town or city? Why or why not?
skills of inferring meaning and
2. Do you think a shopping mall like American
summarizing. Then they study
Dream would be popular in your country?
Why or why not?
modal verbs for giving advice
and practice using them.

WARM-UP 3 min
Write the word Trend on the board.
what a lesson is about, you give
question 1. Invite answers from
Ask students if they can say what
them a prompt on the board or
students who would and wouldn’t
it means or give you a sentence
show a photo and try to draw out
like to go to this shopping mall,
with the word. If necessary, write
words that they already know.
reminding them to give reasons.
an example sentence on the board
The danger is that it can take too
For question 2, they can compare
and then ask students to guess
© National Geographic Learning
long and become discouraging.
their definition in the Warm-Up
the meaning of trend. For example,
If you write a word on the board
with the definition given. Then
you could write a sentence such
or ask a question and it doesn’t
brainstorm ideas for recent
as, In the 1970s, there was a trend
provoke any responses, then
shopping and fashion trends.
for people to have long hair.
give more clues.
You could also extend this by
asking students to say what the
TEACHING TIP: Eliciting
recent trends are in other areas of
Look at the photo. Answer the
their lives, such as social media,
questions. 10 min
As teachers, we often try to elicit
video-gaming, and music.
Have students open their books
ideas from students. The idea
and look at the photo to answer
is that rather than tell students

46 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 4

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 2 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 109 ────────

WARM-UP VIDEO
About the video
This is an authentic news report
from an American news channel.
This means that everyone in the
video speaks at a natural speed,
so students will find it challenging.
However, there are lots of visual
clues in the video because it is
filmed at a new shopping mall
called the American Dream,
which, as well as having stores
and restaurants, has the world’s
largest amusement park in the
Western Hemisphere. The mall
is owned by a large family and
there’s an interview with one of the
family members.

Warm-Up 5 min
Put students into small groups
and have them talk about any
types of shopping malls they
have ever been to. In their group,
they should make a list of all the
types of shops, places to eat, and
other things you can do there.
Give the groups a time limit of two
minutes and then ask the group
with the longest list to read it
aloud. Afterwards, ask if the other
groups have any additional words
to add to the list.

A Watch a TV news report about
a new type of shopping mall
with entertainment. Check (✓)
the types of entertainment you
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
/ Interpret numbers and talk about trends    / Describe different personal styles
see. 10 min
/ Disagree politely    / Give advice
As the video is authentic, make
it clear to students that for this
first exercise they don’t need
to understand all the words.
true or false based on what they
EXTRA VIDEO
They just need to concentrate
saw in the first viewing. Note
VOCABULARY
on what places they see in the
that to complete this exercise
fearless (family)
shopping mall.
successfully, students don’t
have to understand every word,
innovators
© National Geographic Learning
but they should listen for the key
B Watch the video again. Read
malls are dying
meaning in order to complete
the statements and circle T for
famed (famous)
the exercise. Be prepared to
true or F for false. 10–15 min
play the video twice.
deterred
Before watching the video
mega
again, read the sentences
C Discuss the questions in pairs.
together as a class and clarify
boasts
10 min
the meaning of any new words.
As you read through, ask one
When they have finished, call
or two students whether they
on pairs to share their ideas
think the sentence might be
with the rest of the class.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 4 | 47

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 3 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 110 ────────

4A HOW WE SHOP

VOCABULARY
WORD BANK
about / approximately
A Look at the first Word Bank. Answer the questions.    almost / nearly
exactly
1. Which words do you know?
much
more / less
2. Which words are new? Look them up in your dictionary.
a lot
increase decrease
trend
B What do the bar graphs show? Tell a partner.

ONLINE SHOPPING WORLDWIDE
1
WORD BANK
1,000 = one thousand
2020    2.05
1,000,000 = one million
Graph 1 shows that the
2,000,000,000 = two billion
1.46
2015    number of online shoppers
(not two billions)
worldwide was 1.46 billion
1.46 million = one point
in 2015 and increased to
four six million
2.05 billion in 2020.
Number of online shoppers (in billions)
Graph 2 shows that in the
US, the percentage of
people who shopped for
US ONLINE GROCERY SHOPPING
2
groceries online was
23.1% in 2018 and
WORD BANK
increased to 52% in
2020    52%
Groceries are food
2020.
items that you buy at a
supermarket.
2018 23.1%

Percentage of people who bought groceries online
in the last 12 months

C Look at the graphs in B. Then circle the correct words below.
1. a. In 2015, there were almost / exactly 1.5 billion online shoppers.
b. In 2020, there were nearly / approximately 2 billion.

c. This shows an increase / a decrease in online shopping.

d. This may be because online shopping is much more / much less
convenient.

2. a. In 2018, about / exactly twenty-three percent of people bought groceries
online in the US.

b. In 2020, it decreased / increased to about / exactly fifty-two percent.
© National Geographic Learning
c. Buying groceries online is becoming a lot less / a lot more popular.

D Discuss the questions in pairs.
1. Describe the two online shopping trends from the graphs.
As you can see from the
2. Are these trends the same or different in your country?
chart, . . . is increasing.
In 2015, . . .
What about in your own life?

48 | UNIT 4

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 4 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 111 ────────

2. What kind of graphs are these? (bar graphs)
4A HOW WE SHOP
3. What does the darker green show? (the numbers
or percentage that do these things)
VOCABULARY
4. Does the graph tell the amount in numbers,
WARM-UP 5 min
percentages, or another format? (numbers and
Ask students to think about how they do their
percentages)
shopping. Ask, What percentage of your shopping
5. Which years are the graphs showing trends for?
is from stores on the street? What percentage is
(2015, 2018, and 2020)
online? Listen to a few different answers and write the
percentages on the board. Elicit what type of products
6. Is the overall trend in the graphs increasing or
students buy in stores and what type of products they
decreasing? (increasing)
buy online. Overall, the idea is to find out how the
class thinks they do most of their shopping.
C Look at the graphs in B. Then circle the correct
words below. 10–15 min
A Look at the first Word Bank. Answer the
questions. 10 min
Allow plenty of time for students to do this
because they need to study the bar graphs
Have students study the Word Bank and assess
and then read the sentences before circling
how many of the words they are familiar with.
the correct word. It will be useful to do the
Then you could have students look up any new
first one or two sentences together as a class
words in a dictionary (or find out definitions from
and then students can work through the rest in
other students in the class).
pairs. As you go through the answers together
as a class, read the sentences aloud and help
TEACHING OPTION: New words
with any pronunciation issues.
As students look up and find out the meaning for
new words, have them write the words in their
D Discuss the questions in pairs. 10 min
notebooks. Remind them to use different ways to
Have students begin by taking turns describing
record the meaning, such as using translation,
the two trends shown in the graphs. To help
definitions, or pictures (where appropriate), and
students structure their descriptions, you could
writing their own sentences with the words in them.
write the following expressions on the board for
them to refer to:
MORE WORDS: Trends
• This graphs shows . . .
• As you can see from this chart . . .
increase go up, rise    the same as equal to
• In 2020, there were . . .
decrease go down, fall    chart
• . . . percent shopped . . .
above, over (50%)    table
• In comparison, . . . percent shopped . . .
• So, the percentage increased / decreased . . .
below, under (50%)    graph

For question 2, have students talk about trends
in their own country. If necessary, you could ask
B What do the bar graphs show? Tell a partner.
students to do online research for homework and
10 min
find out what the trends are like in their country.
Have students work in pairs and describe what
the bar graphs show. Encourage them to go
EXTRA! Describe a chart
beyond just saying what the title of each graph
says. Remind them to also describe what the
Ask students to find a chart online that they are
actual bars are showing, including the years,
interested in or that is connected to their job in
the numbers of shoppers, and the percentages.
some way. Then ask students to prepare and give a
(See the Teaching Tip.)
presentation of the chart to the class. Alternatively,
© National Geographic Learningthey could write a short description of the chart.
TEACHING TIP: Understanding a chart or graph
Note that this type of task often appears in certain
international exams where students may have to
Understanding graphs and charts is a key reading
write a description of a chart.
skill. Use this as an opportunity to focus on this skill.
For more guidance on what to look out for, write
these questions on the board for students to answer
for each graph.

1. What is the title? (Online Shopping Worldwide
and US Online Grocery Shopping)

Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson A | 48a

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 5 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 112 ────────

the items listed. If you think students might need
LISTENING
some help, tell them that they are listening for
four items only.
WARM UP 10 min
As the topic of this listening lesson is shopping
Listen for details. Key words in audio
and buying things online, start the lesson with
recordings tend to be stressed and sometimes
an exercise to get students saying the names of
repeated or emphasized. Students need to
objects they buy. Ideally, have all students stand
concentrate on these content words for their first
in a large circle. Alternatively, put students into
listening.
groups of about eight and have them stand in
small circles. Explain that they are going to play a
C Listen for numbers. Read the questions. Then
game called “I went to the store and bought . . . .”
listen again and write a number or word. 23
Choose a student in the circle to start. He or
10 min
she says the sentence and adds the name of an
Have the class read the three questions and
object; for example, I went to the store and bought
invite some students to guess what the answers
a bicycle. The next student in the circle repeats
might be. Use this opportunity to listen for how
the sentence and adds another object, I went to
well students can say amounts of money, and
the store and bought a bicycle and a fish. Then the
make any corrections if necessary. Play the
third student has to remember and say the whole
audio again and check the answers.
sentence and add a third object, I went to the store
and bought a bicycle, a fish, and a phone. This
Listen for numbers. Listening for numbers is
game continues around the circle until it reaches
an essential skill because, as well as simply
the first student again. It gets harder and harder
listening for cardinal numbers (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, . . .),
for students to remember the whole sentence as it
students need to be able to listen for ordinal
gets longer. At the end, you can repeat the game,
numbers (1st, 2nd, 3rd), years, amounts of money,
but choose a new student so everyone has the
measurements, etc. It’s often useful to review
opportunity to say a short sentence and a longer
how we say certain types of numbers before
sentence.
listening to any audio so students are prepared
and know what type of numbers to listen for.
TEACHING TIP: Standing up

D Read the sentences below. Then listen and match
Often, exercises like the one in the Warm-Up work
1–3 with a–d. One answer is extra. 24 10 min
much better when students stand up. Because
students spend so much time in a class sitting
As students read the sentences, they can try
down, it’s always a good idea to have exercises
to guess which will match before listening.
that get students standing and walking from
Then play the audio in which the same news
time to time because it gives them renewed
reporter talks about online sales of food and
physical and mental energy. Even if you don’t have
gives reasons for certain trends. Check the final
much room in your classroom to move around,
answers together as a class.
students can still stand up occasionally. And if you
teach online, you and your students can stand up in
E Which items in D are true for you? 5 min
front of your webcams.
Discuss the question together as a class and let
students say which are true for them and why.
A Would you buy these things online? Why or why
not? Tell a partner. 5 min
CULTURE TIP: Singles Day
Assign pairs and have students discuss the
You might want to discuss what the photo shows, or
three items. You could extend this exercise
a student might ask about it. China’s Singles Day on
by brainstorming shopping products with the
November 11th is the world’s biggest 24-hour online
class and writing them on the board. Then ask
shopping event. Originally, the date was chosen
students to discuss which items you would
to celebrate people who were single, but over the
normally buy from a physical store and which
years it has become a day for online shopping
you would buy online.
© National Geographic Learningwhen you can get big discounts.
B Listen for details. What things are people buying
online? Listen and check (✓) the ones you hear.
23 10 min

The audio contains short extracts with news
descriptions of different online shopping trends.
Students need to listen closely for the names of

49a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 6 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 113 ────────

LISTENING

A Would you buy these things online? Why or why not? Tell a partner.
a computer a T-shirt a bag of chips

B Listen for details. What things are people buying online? Listen and check (✓) the ones you hear. 23
✓    ✓
books electronics groceries
✓    ✓
clothing furniture makeup

C Listen for numbers. Read the questions. Then listen again and write a number or word. 23
$1,100
1. How much did the average person spend shopping about
online in China?
$4,250
2. How about in Great Britain? approximately
food
3. What do some people not like to buy online?

D Read the sentences below. Then listen and match 1–3 with a–d. One answer is extra. 24
b
1. Shoppers want fresh food. a. They like the experience of shopping.
d
2. Shoppers want to choose their own food. b. They want to see the food to make sure.
a
3. Shoppers want to leave their homes. c. They don’t want to pay a lot of money.
d. They don’t want a stranger to do it.

E Which items in D are true for you?

Workers in Ganyu, China pack boxes on
Singles Day (November 11), the world's
biggest online shopping event.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson A | 49

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 7 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 114 ────────

SPEAKING

Jessica: I’m not sure about that. I think it was
A Jessica and Maria are roommates. Listen to
about $1,000. That’s too expensive.
their conversation. Then answer the questions
in pairs. 25
Maria: How about buying a new one online?
Some of the websites have good deals.
Jessica: Hey, Maria. We need to do something
about the TV.
Jessica: I know what you mean, but I want to
go to a store. I want to see and test
Maria: Yeah. It’s not working well. We need to
the TV first.
get a new one.
Maria: OK. Let’s go to the mall and find a TV
Jessica: I have an idea. My brother is getting
we like. Then we can buy it online.
a new TV next month. Maybe we can
have his old one.
Jessica: Good idea!
Maria: That’s not a bad idea, but I think we
1. What are Jessica and Maria talking about?
need one right now.
They’re talking about getting a new TV. Their
What are their ideas?
ideas are getting a TV from Jessica’s brother,
Jessica: Yeah, you’re right.
buying one at the
2. Which idea do you think is the best one?
Maria: Actually, we saw a nice TV at the mall
mall, buying one online, finding a TV at the
mall and then buying it online.
last week. It was really cheap.

B Practice the conversation with a partner.
SPEAKING STRATEGY 26
Polite disagreement
C Work with a new partner. Imagine you are roommates. Follow
I know what you’re saying,
the steps below.
but . . .
I see / know what you mean,
1. You need to buy something for your apartment. Choose one
but . . .
of these items:
I’m not sure about that.
a desk a sofa bookshelves other:
That’s not a bad idea, but . . .

More direct disagreement
2. Create a new conversation similar to the one in A. Include
I’m afraid I disagree.
at least two expressions from the Speaking Strategy.
Sorry, but I disagree.
© National Geographic Learning
I totally / completely
D Get together with another pair and perform your conversation for
disagree.
You can use more direct
them. Then listen to their conversation. Which expressions for
expressions with people you
disagreement did you hear? Who do you agree with and why?
know well (friends, family
etc.).
E Find a new pair, switch roles, and do D again.

50 | UNIT 4

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 8 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 115 ────────

LANGUAGE TIP: Register
SPEAKING
When teaching expressions for speaking, it’s
WARM-UP 5 min
important to introduce different ways of saying
the same thing and contrasting the register of
Explain to students that they are going to listen to
the expressions. Register refers to whether the
two roommates disagreeing about something.
language is more formal / less formal, polite /
Put students in pairs and give them two minutes
impolite, direct / indirect. It is good for language
to make a list of things that people disagree about
learners to learn one or two ways to say something,
when they live together; for example, doing the
but your students need to also understand the
dishes, shopping, cleaning, paying bills, choosing
register of each expression and know when it’s
new furniture. After two minutes, invite students to
appropriate to be more direct and perhaps less
share their ideas with the rest of the class.
polite (with close friends), or to be more polite and
less direct (with people they know less well).
A Jessica and Maria are roommates. Listen to their
conversation. Then answer the questions in pairs.
25 10 min
C Work with a new partner. Imagine you are
roommates. Follow the steps below. 15 min
In addition to answering the first question, you
Put students into pairs and have them choose
could also ask students to listen and say what the
ir
an item they are going to buy for their apartment.
two roommates disagree about (They disagree
er,
Then ask them to write a new conversation that
about buying a new TV that costs $1,000.). After
e
he
is similar to the one in A. As students prepare
they listen, ask students to say which idea is
their conversation, tell them to think about how
best: buying it at the mall or buying it online.
well the two speakers in the conversation know
each other. This will affect whether they choose
CULTURE TIP: Family disagreements
expressions that express polite disagreement or
In many countries, children, even adult children,
more direct disagreement.
do not disagree with their parents. It is considered
disrespectful or even shameful. In other countries,
D Get together with another pair and perform
however, children often argue with their parents
your conversation for them. Then listen to
and may even express anger. This is not usually
their conversation. Which expressions for
considered good behavior, but it is tolerated.
disagreement did you hear? Who do you agree
with and why? 10–15 min
B Practice the conversation with a partner. 5–10 min
Have pairs take turns reading their conversations
and listening to each other. They can check
Have students take a role and practice the
(✓) which expressions they hear from the list
conversation with a partner. Then have students
of expressions in the Speaking Strategy. Have
switch roles or partners for more practice.
students give feedback to each other on how
polite and direct the conversation is.
TEACHING TIP: Read, look up, and speak

When students practice a written conversation aloud,
E Find a new pair, switch roles, and do D again.
it feels more natural if students maintain eye contact
10–15 min
when speaking to each other. Students should read
Have students repeat the exercise in D with a
a line or two, then look up at their partner and say
new pair, listen for expressions, and give similar
the lines, or as much of them as possible. When they
feedback.
get stuck, they can look down and read, but should
look up again before speaking. The partner also
should maintain eye contact with the speaker (not
TEACHING OPTION: Record and listen
look at the book to see what he or she has to say
When students write a conversation and practice
next). The conversation will not flow like spontaneous
speaking with a partner, one way to prepare is
© National Geographic Learning
speech, but it will feel more natural, and students will
to record their conversation. The pair can find a
understand what they’re saying.
quiet place and record their conversation using
their phones, for example. Recording and listening
SPEAKING STRATEGY 26
to their own conversation is a good way to selfassess and improve their work. They can also
Tell students to read the list of expressions for polite
give you a copy of the recording so you can listen
disagreement and more direct disagreement. Then
and evaluate their strengths and weaknesses. If
have them notice which of the expressions are used
you teach online, students can often record their
in the conversation between Jessica and Maria.
conversation using an online platform such as
Point out that the two roommates disagree politely in
Moodle or Zoom.
the conversation. Have students listen to the audio
and repeat the expressions.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson A | 50a

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 9 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 116 ────────

speech, before a consonant the /f/ in of is
GRAMMAR
dropped and the vowel becomes an unstressed
/ /. Play the audio again so students can verify
WARM-UP 5 min
what they heard.
Ask the class, Do you like online shopping? Have
students raise their hands if they answer yes. Write
the number of students in the class who answered
LANGUAGE TIP: Pronunciation of of in isolation
yes and the total number of students in the class.
When we slow down, the pronunciation of of is
Then ask students how to make a sentence about
different. Point out that the last sound is / /, not /f/.
the answers without saying the numbers. For
Read aloud slowly, the pronunciation of of is / /. But
example, if there are 25 students in the class and
point out that in rapid speech, pronouncing of as / /
20 answered yes, write on the board, Most of the
before a consonant sounds too careful and formal
class likes online shopping. If only 12 or 13 say yes,
to most native speakers of American English. In
then write, Half of the class likes online shopping.
slower speech (like that of most learners), it is more
appropriate.
A Read the Unit 4, Lesson A Grammar Reference
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
C What do you like about online shopping? Rank
the exercises below. 20–30 min
these items 1–6 (1 = like the most). Share your
Go over the quantity expressions in the chart and
answers with a partner. 5 min
the scale on the right. Show how these expressions
Check that students understand the six items.
were used in the sentences in the Warm-Up.
For example, explain that convenience means
Have students complete the Grammar Reference
that it’s easy to do and that variety means there
exercises on page 192. Remind them that the
are multiple options. Have students rank the
grammar charts in the Grammar Reference have
items on their own from 1 (meaning they like it
extended information on quantity expressions.
the most) to 6 (it’s the least important reason).
Then, in pairs, have students compare their
GRAMMAR TIP: Quantity expressions
rankings. To extend the exercise, tell students
With the exception of all and none, these quantity
to give their opinions and try to come to an
expressions do not refer to concrete amounts. Even
agreement about which is the most and least
a couple of can be used to refer to a very small
important reason. Then have students provide
number of something, not just to two of something.
feedback to the class on their final decision.
For example, There were only a couple of people
at the meeting could mean just two or maybe two
D Read the infographic. In pairs, make sentences
or three people. Most usually means more than a
with quantity expressions using the words in
lot, and a lot means more than some, but they can
parentheses. 10–15 min
be quite subjective and dependent upon individual
Students will need plenty of time to study the
perceptions.
infographic before writing sentences. Ask
students what the infographic shows. Then elicit
TEACHING OPTION: The flipped classroom
one or two example sentences together as a
class so everyone is clear what to do.
To open up time for in-class communicative tasks,
assign the Grammar Reference exercises on page
192 as homework. The next time class meets:
E How do the survey results compare with your
ideas from C? Discuss with a partner. 5 min
1. Review the expressions in the Grammar Reference.
In pairs, students can compare the results in D
2. Go through the exercises students did for
with their choices in C.
homework; present new examples and reinforce
points as needed. Take questions from students.
EXPANSION: Create a survey and a report
3. Turn back to page 51 and do the communicative
© National Geographic Learning
Students could work in pairs and write six questions
exercises there.
to find out the information in D; for example, Do you
like the speed of online shopping? / Do you like the
B PRONUNCIATION: Unstressed of Read the
prices?
sentences below. Then listen and repeat. 27
Then have students walk around the class and
5–10 min
interview as many classmates as possible about their
Have students read the sentences, then play the
views on online shopping. Once they have many
audio. Play the audio again and have students
answers, have students write a report on their survey
repeat. Ask, How does of sound? Point out that
using sentences that start with quantity expressions.
of is followed by a consonant sound in each
sentence. Explain to students that in natural

51a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 10 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 117 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 4, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises.
Then do the exercises below.

QUANTITY EXPRESSIONS
100% all
Quantity of Noun phrase Verb
most
All
a lot
Most
half
A lot    my friends
of like online shopping.
Half    them
some
Some
0%    none
None

B PRONUNCIATION: Unstressed of Read the sentences below. Then listen and repeat. 27
1. All of my friends shop online.    3. Some of them use laptops.
2. Most of them use their phones.

C What do you like about online shopping? Rank these items 1–6 (1 = like the most). Share
your answers with a partner.

the convenience the pop-up ads the speed

the customer service the prices the variety of items

D Read the infographic. In pairs, make sentences with quantity expressions using the words
in parentheses.

WHAT DO YOU LIKE ABOUT ONLINE SHOPPING?

50%    30%    70%

87% Prices    0%    Customer    100% Variety
Service

Speed    Ads    Convenience

1. (all / people)All of the people like the convenience of online shopping.
Most of the shoppers like the speed.
2. (most / shoppers)
A lot of them like the variety of items.
3. (a lot / them)
© National Geographic LearningHalf of them like the prices.
4. (half / them)
Some of the people like the customer service.
5. (some / people)
None of them like the ads.
6. (none / them)

E How do the survey results compare with your ideas from C? Discuss with a partner.
Only half of the shoppers like the prices,
but it’s my favorite thing about online
shopping.

Lesson A | 51

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 11 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 118 ────────

An indoor
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
rock climbing
wall at Funan
A Read and guess the missing words. Then listen and check your
Mall in
answers. 28
Singapore
increasing
1. The number of online shoppers is .

2. People like online shopping because it’s
lot
a more convenient.
variety
3. They also like the of online products.
everything
4. People don’t buy online, though.
food
5. Many people still buy their in local stores.
see
6. Also, they like to and test items first.

B Read. Then complete the steps with a partner.
Today’s shoppers are looking for more than just an online bargain. There’s a
new trend: shoppers want to go to the mall, but most of them don’t want to buy
things. They want to have experiences.

1. Below are some examples of “shopping experiences.” Check (✓) the ones that
sound interesting to you.

taking a yoga class having dinner while watching a movie

taking a cooking class playing games at an arcade

indoor rock climbing posing for a photo shoot

2. Add three experiences to the list above.

C Join another pair. Follow the steps below.
USEFUL
1. You want to open a new store at a mall in your city. Your store will not
EXPRESSIONS
sell things. It will offer an experience.
Choosing an experience
2. As a group, share your ideas from B and choose the best experience
Who are our customers?
for your new store. Use the Useful Expressions to help you decide.
What’s popular now?

A lot of people in the
city do yoga. Let’s
open a yoga studio. I’m not sure about that. Most of
our customers are teenagers.
They don’t do yoga.

D Present your store to the class.
WORD BANK
a couple of two
A couple of us wanted to open a yoga studio.
© National Geographic Learning
But in the end, all of us decided to . . .

4A GOALS Now I can . . .
1. Yes I can.
Interpret numbers and talk about trends
2. Mostly, yes.
Disagree politely
3. Not yet.

52 | UNIT 4

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 12 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 119 ────────

participate in the discussion. If there are two,
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
they can consult with each other and take turns.
WARM-UP 5 min
• Secretaries: one or two students who take notes
Look at the photo of the woman on an indoor rock
on the ideas expressed and conclusions reached
climbing wall in a shopping mall. Ask students if
by the group. If there are two, they can compare
they would like to try this activity or if they have ever
notes and be sure nothing is missed.
done it. If they answer yes, ask, Where did you do
• Reporters: one or two students who present the
it? In a shopping mall?
group’s results to the whole class. They should
consult with the secretaries to be sure they cover
the important points. Reporters should participate
A Read and guess the missing words. Then listen
actively in the discussion. With frequent group
and check your answers. 28 10 min
work, all students will have repeated opportunities
This exercise recycles some of the vocabulary
to experience each role.
and main themes of the unit. Students should be
able to guess most of the words before listening.
Then they could compare their answers with
D Present your store to the class. 20–30 min
a partner’s before you play the audio. As they
This could be done by everyone in the group,
listen, have students check their guesses.
but it’s probably best if one or two students take
the main responsibility for this (see the Teaching
B Read. Then complete the steps with a partner.
Tip). Keep the presentations short, with a little
15 min
time for one or two questions at the end from
other students. You could provide the groups
In the first step of this exercise, have students
with a scaffold to follow by writing these useful
decide with their partner which activities interest
phrases on the board: The name of our store
them. You might need to explain that posing
is . . . , We are going to offer people . . . , Our
means take a particular position for a photo
main customers will be . . . , We think this will be
or painting.
popular because . . . , Any questions?
Then, in step 2, encourage students to be
If you think this is going to take too long
imaginative and think of really interesting and
(especially in larger classes), join two groups
original experiences. For ideas, they could
together and have them take turns presenting
refer back to the video on page 46 about the
to each other. In an online class, they can work
American Dream shopping mall and look at the
together in breakout rooms.
entertainment and experiences it offered.

Diagnostics
C Join another pair. Follow the steps below.
Check students’ competencies as follows:
10–15 min
• Are students able to talk about trends?
Working in their groups of four (or more if
• Are they able to disagree both politely and
necessary), have students use the two questions
directly?
in the Useful Expressions box as a starting point
for their discussion. Students need to define
• Are they able to describe quantities?
who their main customers are and what kinds of
things are popular with these people. Once the
groups have decided what their store will offer,
4A
GOALS
ask them to think of a good name for their store.
Review students’ self-assessment in the
goals box. Point out to students where
TEACHING TIP: Group work
they learned these skills in the unit. If they
rated their ability below Yes, I can, they can
Group work can be more useful for students
turn back to those pages and review the
if specific responsibilities are assigned. As
© National Geographic Learning
exercises.
students become accustomed to taking on these
different responsibilities, group work becomes
Interpret numbers and talk about trends:
more efficient, more communicative, and more
Vocabulary, page 48, A–D; Listening,
motivating. Assigning each role to two students,
page 49, B–D; Grammar, page 51, C–E;
where possible, also takes pressure off individuals
Active English, page 52, A–B
and encourages spontaneous communication
Disagree politely: Speaking, page 50, A–E
about their tasks and the topic. These roles and
responsibilities are suggested:

• Leaders: one or two students who ask questions
and make sure that all group members

Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson A | 52a

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 13 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 120 ────────

8. fashionable (stylish)
4B FASHION ON DEMAND
9. when certain people dress well in clothes (looks
great in)
VOCABULARY
10. when certain clothes are better on people
WARM-UP 5 min
(looks great on)
Ask students if they follow anyone on social media
or regularly watch people on YouTube. As they
say some names, write them on the board and ask
PRONUNCIATION TIP: Difficult words
students what the people talk about and why they
Some words on this page will be difficult for
watch their videos or follow them on social media.
learners. The words suit, casual, and unique, in
particular, are often challenging. Be prepared
A The woman in the photo is an influencer. Look up
to model the words a number of times and have
this word in your dictionary. What do influencers
students repeat them. You could also ask students
do? Do you follow any of them? 5 min
to underline the stressed syllable and identify the
number of syllables in these words, in particular:
Following the Warm-Up, students can probably
influencer (4); unique (2); casual (3).
guess what an influencer is and they can check
by looking up the term in the dictionary. Assign
Some students might think that suit and style have
students to pairs. Have them discuss the
two syllables, when in fact they only have one.
questions. Do a class check and expand on the
list that is already on the board.
MORE WORDS: Describing clothes
B Read about influencers. Look up words in blue
colorful plain    retro / vintage
you don’t know. Answer the questions in pairs.
formal casual    sporty
10–15 min
elegant    usual ordinary
Ask students to read the text and check they
understand the meaning of the words. Clarify
C Circle the best words to complete 1–6 about the
any doubts as needed. Then have students
woman in the photo. Then explain your answers
work in pairs and discuss the two questions
to a partner. 15 min
before reporting back to the class. Ask pairs to
volunteer and share their responses.
Point out that there are no correct answers to
these sentences, so students will need to make
their own choices according to their own taste
TEACHING TIP: Explaining vocabulary
and views about clothes.
Students should explain any words they can to each
other. They can point to pictures, describe the words,
TEACHING TIP: Vocabulary notebooks
give native-language equivalents, or give words
with the opposite meaning. Students with bilingual
Require students to keep a list of new words in
dictionaries can look words up for the class. Finally,
a special notebook, a separate section of their
explain any remaining words yourself.
class notebook, or on their phone. They should
list high-interest words or words that they think are
especially useful. Every student’s list will be unique.
TEACHING OPTION
Periodically, ask a student to share some of the
Instead of asking students to look up the words in
words in his or her vocabulary notebook with the
blue in B, you could also write these definitions on
class, or several students can share in small groups.
the board and ask students to match the words in
blue to them. (Answers given in parentheses.)
TEACHING TIP: Vocabulary notebook follow-up
1. people who change the way other people think
If students have vocabulary notebooks, ask several
through posts and social media (influencers)
students what words from this lesson they will be
© National Geographic Learningadding to their notebooks. Ask why they chose
2. matches; looks good on someone else (suits)
those words—are they especially interesting, or
3. fashion (style)
useful, or both? Write their choices on the board.
4. products made by a particular company
(brands)

5. only one of, not like anything else (unique)

6. cheap, good value (inexpensive)

7. relaxed, informal (casual)

53a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 14 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 121 ────────

4B FASHION ON DEMAND

VOCABULARY
What’s in style?
A The woman in the photo is an influencer. Look up this
CHECK WITH A FASHION
word in your dictionary. What do influencers do?
INFLUENCER!
Do you follow any of them?
• Most influencers are regular people with
Influencers make posts on social media for their followers
a unique and interesting style.
about brands or products that they like or recommend.
B Read about influencers. Look up words in blue you
• Millions of people follow influencers
on social media to learn about popular
don’t know. Answer the questions in pairs.
clothing brands.
1. How many people follow influencers?
Millions of people
• “I follow Lois Opoku,” says one Instagram
2. Why do people follow influencers?
user, “because she’s very stylish. She
To learn about popular clothing brands
looks great in anything—an expensive
jacket or an inexpensive pair of casual
C Circle the best words to complete 1–6 about the woman
jeans. When something looks good on
in the photo. Then explain your answers to a partner.
her, it usually suits me, too. So I buy it.”
1. The woman’s clothes are casual / stylish / unique.
2. Her shoes look comfortable / unique / inexpensive.
Sales of these shoes might increase /
decrease now.

3. The dress is probably expensive /
inexpensive.

4. In my opinion, the clothes look
great on / don’t suit her.

5. I / My friend / My sister would
look good / look terrible
in her clothes.

6. Her clothes are / aren’t
in style now.

I said her clothes are casual
because she’s wearing
sneakers.

© National Geographic Learning
Lois Opoku is a fashion
influencer and blogger
living in Berlin, Germany.

Lesson B | 53

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 15 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 122 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5 min
Tell students to look at the photo,
read the caption, and describe
what they can see (e.g., piles
THE FACTS ABOUT
of clothes, a fashion model, a
designer). Then, in pairs, ask
them to write a title for the photo
FAST FASHION
and share it with the class.
It’s really cheap.
We’re buying more.
Designer brands (like Gucci or Supreme)
Shopping for stylish clothes is cheaper than
sell stylish, expensive clothing. Fast-fashion
ever. It’s easier, too. A person can learn about
A Tell a partner: how many
brands (like Zara and H&M) also sell trendy1
something on social media and then buy it
T-shirts do you have? Where
clothes, but for much less. A designer shirt, for
online right away. For these reasons—and
did you buy them? How much
example, might cost nearly $1,300. A similar
because fashion trends change quickly—people
were they? 5 min
shirt—made of cheaper material2 —may sell
now buy almost twice as many clothes as
for $13 at a store like H&M.
ten years ago, especially casual items. Because
Have students discuss the
of this, fast-fashion companies are also making
questions with a partner.
a lot more clothing. One of the world’s most
Afterwards, find out who in the
popular clothing items is the cotton T-shirt.
class has the most T-shirts.
People buy almost two billion every year.

CULTURE TIP: T-shirts

Nowadays T-shirts are a global
item of clothing, but they didn’t
become popular until the second
half of the twentieth century. Before
then, they were an undergarment
that you always wore underneath
your other clothes. However,
by the 1960s they had become
fashionable in many different
colors with words and messages
written on them. Because they are
simple and cheap to produce, they
are often bought and soon thrown
away as part of fast fashion.

B Make predictions. Read
the title of the article and the
sentences in bold. Guess the
answers to the questions.
5 min
54 | UNIT 4

Have students read the main
title. Draw their attention to the
three subheadings in bold (It’s
students can guess the type of
This exercise builds on the
really cheap, We’re buying more,
vocabulary they expect to read.
skills work students did on
and A lot goes in the garbage).
the Listening page when they
Then discuss students’ ideas for
listened for numbers. Because
© National Geographic Learning
C Read the article. Check your
answers to the two questions.
it is a scanning exercise, you
ideas in B. 10 min
could set a time limit of two
Make predictions. The article
Have students read and find
minutes to encourage students
on this spread is a good
out if their ideas from B are in
to scan the text quickly. Note
example of the way in which
the text.
that some of the numbers are
different clues help us predict
in numerical form (“$13”) and
the content of a reading. The
D Scan for numbers. Complete
some are written out (“ten
photo, the title, and the three
the sentences with numbers
years ago”), so students can’t
subheadings all build up
from the article. 10 min
assume they are only looking
our ideas on the topic and
for numerals.

54 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 16 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 123 ────────

Scan for numbers. Often
when we read, we only need
A Tell a partner: how many T-shirts do you
A lot goes in the garbage.
key information very quickly.
have? Where did you buy them? How much
People are buying more clothing, and they
For example, with a train
were they?
are throwing away a lot, too. In the US alone,
schedule, we don’t read it
Americans put over eight million tons of clothes
from beginning to end but we
B Make predictions. Read the title of the
in the garbage each year because the items are
scan it for the key numbers
article and the sentences in bold. Guess the
worn3 or they aren’t in style anymore.
answers to the questions.
such as departure times, the
Many shoppers don’t worry about throwing
Fast fashion is stylish
1. What is “fast fashion”?
platform it leaves from, and
clothing that follows trends from designers but uses
away inexpensive items. But doing this has
cheaper materials.
the price. With academic texts
2. In the author’s opinion, is fast fashion
a cost, experts say. For example, it takes
mostly good or bad for us?
or readings that are used in
In the author's opinion,
2,700 liters of water to make one cotton T-shirt.
fast fashion is mostly bad for us.
exams, students will often
But after a few uses, we throw it away. Also, a
C Read the article. Check your ideas in B.
lot of fast-fashion clothing is made of plastic.
have to search specifically
This hurts the planet.
for a year, a date, or numbers
D Scan for
ACADEMIC SKILL
connected with quantities,
Luckily, things are changing. Some stores—
Scanning
numbers.
When you are reading
like Zara and H&M—now take people’s used
populations, or trend figures.
Complete the
for numbers, scan the
sentences with
clothes and then resell or recycle them. This
text quickly to find the
numbers from the
way, the items don’t go in the garbage. All
numbers and then check
E In pairs, role-play an interview
article.
clothing stores should do these things, says
what information they
between the two people below.
refer to.
1. A designer
one expert. But for now, it’s a good start. 29
shirt might cost
Use ideas from D and other
$1,300
.
1If something is trendy, it is popular or in style.
information from the reading.
2Material is cloth; it is used to make clothes.
2. A similar shirt at H&M may cost
3If clothing or shoes are worn, they are damaged from
Switch roles. Then do your role
$13
.
use; they may be broken or have holes in them.
play for another pair. 20 min
twice
3. Today, people buy almost
ten
as many clothes as years
Before starting the role play,
ago.
give students time to prepare
Over $450 billion worth of material is thrown
two billion
4. Every year, people buy
what they want to say. Another
in the garbage every year. Companies in Italy
cotton T-shirts.
are trying to change this by making designer
option is to put all the journalists
5. Every year, Americans throw away
dresses from recycled clothing.
together and all the CEOs
eight million
tons of clothes.
together and the two sides
2,700
6. You need liters of water to
one
discuss what they are going
make cotton T-shirt.

to say. Then put students into
E In pairs, role-play an interview between the
pairs for the actual role play.
two people below. Use ideas from D and
other information from the reading. Switch
roles. Then do your role play for another pair.
TEACHING TIP: Organizing
Student A: You’re a journalist doing a report
role plays
on fast fashion. You are meeting with the
CEO of a large clothing company. Tell the
Role plays are an effective and
CEO about some of the problems with fast
creative way to set up speaking
fashion. Ask what the company is doing
practice with students, but they
about them.
can also go wrong. Sometimes
Student B: You are the CEO. Explain some
students find it hard to play
good things about fast fashion. Describe
what your company is trying to do about
another person or pretend to
the problems.
know about a subject. As a result,
the role play ends quickly and
Lesson B | 55
students have nothing to say. It’s
worth spending time setting the
scene and asking students to
Another option is to put students
4. How do you think the other
think about their role before they
in pairs with someone who is
person feels?
speak. One way is to write this
playing the same role as them
set of questions on the board and
5. What questions do you want
and they plan answers to their
write down answers about their
© National Geographic Learning
to ask?
questions together. Then they
character before the role play with
separate and work with a new
6. What questions do you think
their partner begins.
partner to do the role play. At the
the other person will ask?
1. What is your job?
end, everyone provides feedback
(How will you answer them?)
on what was said and agreed.
7. What do you want by the end
2. Where are you from?
Different pairs can compare how
of the conversation?
their discussion went.
3. How do you feel about the
subject?

Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson B | 55

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 17 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 124 ────────

LISTENING

A Make predictions. Answer the questions with a partner.
1. What is happening in the four photos?
2. Read the sentences below the photos. Can you guess any of the missing words?

shopper
You answer questions about your    A personal (3.)
size
(1.) and your favorite    chooses items.
styles
(2.) .

pay
You get the items in the    You (5.) for the clothes.
mail    suit
(4.) .    If something doesn’t (6.)
return
you, you (7.) it.

B Read the sentence. Then listen and choose the correct answer. 30
WORD BANK
Carla is telling Max about an online service. The service .
get dressed up put on
formal clothes
a. cleans your clothes c. buys your old clothes
(formal casual)
b. sends clothes to you

C Listen again. Complete 1–7 in A. Write one word in each blank. 30

D Infer meaning. Listen one last time and circle the best answer. 30
ACADEMIC SKILL
1. The site has casual / formal / both casual and formal clothes.
Infer meaning from
context
2. Carla gets new items every two weeks / months.
Sometimes the speaker
© National Geographic Learning
3. The service is for women only / both men and women.
doesn’t say exactly what
they mean. You might
4. In Carla’s opinion, the service is expensive / inexpensive.
have to infer the meaning
5. Carla is mostly happy / a little unhappy with the service.
by thinking about the
person’s situation and
feelings.
E Summarize. Answer the questions with a partner.
1. How does the clothing service work? Cover the sentences below the
photos in A and explain.

2. Would you like this service? Why or why not?

56 | UNIT 4

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 18 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 125 ────────

to play the audio more than once. On the
LISTENING
second or third listening, have students note any
words they hear that helped them choose their
WARM-UP 10 min
answers. For each sentence, these sentences
Explain that you want to list every stage in the
from the audio will help them infer the answers:
process of buying an item of clothing from a
physical store. As a class, brainstorm the first two
1. Carla: Are you more of a casual person or do
or three steps together; for example, 1) Think about
you like to get dressed up?
what clothes you need, 2) Go to the store, 3) Look
2. Carla: I get a box with new clothes every two
for the right part of the store with the item you want,
months.
4) Look at different types and styles, etc.

3. Max: So it’s for guys, too? / Carla: Yeah,
Then put students into small groups and ask them
definitely.
to complete the rest of the list with every step in
the process. Encourage students to have fun with
4. Max: Is it expensive? / Carla: Not really.
extra steps like, try something on, put it back, ask
5. Carla: I almost always get things that are
to try it on again. After about five minutes, ask
each group how many steps they have. Ask the
stylish and look great on me.
group with the most steps to read theirs aloud.
Infer meaning. As the Academic Skill box
Other groups should listen and then say any other
says, inferring meaning from context is about
steps they included.
understanding what the speaker really means
even though he / she doesn’t use the exact
A Make predictions. Answer the questions with a
words. This is a key skill for students when they
partner. 10 min
are trying to understand what another person
really wants or says. It is a skill that is also often
Have students discuss the two questions in pairs
tested in listening tests on exams such as IELTS
and allow time for them to study the photos. Most
and TOEFL, so this is a good moment to introduce
of the missing words in the sentences appear
students to the idea of it.
earlier in this unit, so students should be able to
guess quite a few of them correctly. Discuss as
a class what all the words might be, but students
E Summarize. Answer the questions with a partner.
shouldn’t write anything in the blanks at this point.
10 min

Have students take turns covering the text
Make predictions. Giving students fill-in-thebeneath each photo and trying to describe the
blank sentences of what they will hear helps
steps in the process. The student who listens
focus their attention on key words and makes
can look at their book and provide prompts and
predicting the words more achievable. If you
help if their partner struggles to find the words
would like to make it even easier, tell them the
to describe the process. Then students can
first letter of every missing word; for example, in
comment on whether they would like this kind of
A you could write them on the board like this:
service. As an extension, the whole class could
1) s, 2) s, 3) s, 4) m, 5) p, 6) s, 7) r
list the pros and cons of such a service and write
their ideas in two columns on the board.
B Read the sentence. Then listen and choose the
correct answer. 30 5 min
Summarize. After any kind of listening, it’s
useful to summarize the text. That’s because in
Have students read the sentences and the
real life we often report to others what we have
options. Also refer them to the Word Bank, as the
heard earlier, which is a form of summarizing.
phrase get dressed up is in the conversation.
In addition, for any kind of academic study,
Then have students listen for the general meaning
students often have to listen to a lecture, for
and communicative purpose of the conversation.
example, take notes, and then summarize what
was said in the lecture.
C Listen again. Complete 1–7 in A. Write one word
© National Geographic Learning
in each blank. 30 5 min
EXPANSION: Guess the process
Play the audio again and have students write the
As a follow-up to the task in E, in which students
missing words under the photos in A. They can
describe the process in the photos, students could
now check their earlier predictions.
work in pairs and choose another process such as
ordering books online, opening a bank account,
or buying groceries. Ask them to write the steps in
D Infer meaning. Listen one last time and circle the
the process. Then they can join another pair and
best answer. 30 10 min
describe the process without saying what it is. The
Tell students to read the five sentences, but warn
listening pair should guess what process they are
them when they listen that they won’t hear all the
describing. 15–20 min
words exactly as they are written. Be prepared

Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson B | 56a

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 19 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 126 ────────

conversations, you could write this set of
GRAMMAR
expressions on the board for them to refer to as
well as using the modal verbs in the chart in A:
WARM-UP 10 min
Ask students to look at the photo of the man and
Hi! Can you give me    Sure, how can I help?
read the question. Ask them if the clothing is
some advice?
appropriate. Answers may vary. Some students
I have a . . . / I’m going I think you should . . .
might say he’s dressed too informally and others
on a . . .
might say it depends on what the job is for. Next,
tell students to imagine he is going for a new job
How could I . . .?    You could . . .
in a bank. Ask them, How should he dress for the
How should I . . .?    Also, you’d better . . .
interview? What advice can we give him? Elicit ideas
from students and write their advice on the board.
Students should look at each other when they
At this stage, don’t force them to use any specific
speak. Monitor and provide help as necessary.
words, but prompt them with modal verbs such as
Make notes of any difficulties students are
should / shouldn’t if they need help (e.g., He should
having with could / should / ought to / had better.
wear a formal suit. / He shouldn’t wear that hat!).
Remind students to explain their reasons.

Afterwards, call on two or three pairs to share
their advice for one of the situations. Review the
A Read the Unit 4, Lesson B Grammar Reference
grammar at the end of the exercise by using
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
your notes on the difficulties students had. Write
the exercises below. 20–30 min
the sentences on the board (without saying who
Go over the explanations and examples in the
said them) and have the class correct them, or
chart. Then refer back to the advice you wrote
use them as an error-correction exercise at the
on the board about the man dressing for a job
beginning of the next class.
interview and elicit other ways of giving him
advice, such as, He should / could / ought
TEACHING TIP: Error correction
to / ’d better wear a formal suit. The Grammar
Reference chart on page 192 includes further
When students are doing communicative exercises,
examples and information on when to use each
note common grammar errors as you monitor
of the forms, expanding on the information in
them. These errors can be used in error-correction
the chart here. Have students complete the
exercises to help raise students’ awareness of
exercise in the Grammar Reference appendix in
the grammar and help them self-correct. The
class, or you could assign it for homework to be
example sentences with errors can be projected or
done before the lesson so students have already
written on the board for the whole class to correct
prepared for B–C on page 57.
together, or given to students to correct individually,
with a partner, or in groups before checking with
the class.
GRAMMAR TIP: Could and had better

Students may think that could and had better refer
It is important not to say who made each mistake.
to the past because they look like past forms, but
they are used to give advice about something in the
EXTRA! Writing advice emails
present or near future.
For consolidation of the grammar and writing
practice, you can turn the exercise in B and C
B Work with a partner. Choose a role (A or B). 5 min
into a writing task. Tell students to stay in the role
Ask students to choose one of the roles. They
they chose in B, but explain that this time they
should spend a couple of minutes thinking
are going to write an email to their partner. They
about their part. Tell them to think of three or
should explain their situation (having a job interview
four questions to ask their partner such as, What
or going on a trip to the beach) in the email and
should I wear? Should I take sunblock?
ask their partner for advice. Then they “send their
© National Geographic Learning
emails” by swapping their writing with their partner.
Next, have students read the emails they have
C Give four pieces of advice to your partner about
received and write a reply using the grammar and
his or her situation. Use could, should (not),
the advice listed in C. Finally, they “send” their
ought to, or had better (not) and the items in
emails again by swapping. For any fast finishers,
the box. 10–15 min
tell them to write another reply to the second email.
Have students take turns explaining their
15–20 min
situation and using the questions they have
prepared. In return, their partner gives them
four pieces of advice. To help scaffold the

57a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 20 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 127 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 4, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the
exercises. Then do the exercises below.

ADVICE WITH COULD, SHOULD, OUGHT TO, AND HAD BETTER
could    it online (or at a store).
should / ought to it online. It’s cheaper.
You    shouldn’t buy it at a store. It’s more expensive.
’d better it now. Tomorrow, the price increases.
’d better not it now. It’s too expensive.

B Work with a partner. Choose a role (A or B).
Student A: You have a job interview at a fashion magazine next week.
Student B: You’re going on a trip to the beach. It’s hot in the afternoon, but cool
at night.

C Give four pieces of advice to your partner about his or her situation. Use could,
should (not), ought to, or had better (not) and the items in the box.

bring a book to read get dressed up wear casual clothes
bring a jacket iron your clothes wear something unique
buy clothes there wear a lot of cologne or perfume wear sunglasses

Job interviews are formal, so I think you should get dressed up.

Yes, but this interview is at a fashion magazine.

Oh, then you’d better wear something unique. For example, you could . . .

Is this clothing appropriate
for a job interview?

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 57

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 21 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 128 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A WRITING Imagine you signed up for an online clothing service. Complete the
information about your personal style. Turn to the Unit 4 Writing appendix to see
an example profile.

My Style Profile
1. For school or work, I usually get dressed up / wear casual clothes.
2. It’s important for clothes to be comfortable / stylish / inexpensive /
unique / other: .

3. My two favorite clothing items are my .
They suit me.

4. I look good in these colors: .
5. My two favorite brands or clothing stores are .
6. What else should your personal shopper know? Write about your daily
routine or special clothes you need.

B Exchange books with a partner and read his or her profile in A. As your partner’s
personal shopper, think of six items for him or her. Write your ideas below.

Personal Shopper’s Suggestions
WORD BANK
clothes:
accessory something
shoes:
extra you wear: a watch,
belt, bag, hat, tie, etc.
accessories:

C Return your partner’s book to him or her. Then do the following:
USEFUL
Student A: Use the Useful Expressions to explain your suggestions to
EXPRESSIONS
your partner.
You said you . . . , so
I think you should buy . . .
You said you usually get dressed up, so I think
You could wear . . .
you should buy a dark blue suit. You’ll look
. . . is / are in style now.
great in it!
I think . . . will suit you.
You’ll look great in . . .
Student B: Do you agree with your partner’s choices? Which are your
favorites?

My favorite is the yellow sweater.
Really? A blue suit? I usually wear black,
© National Geographic LearningYellow usually looks good on me!
but maybe I’ll try it!

D Switch roles and repeat the steps in C.

4B GOALS Now I can . . .
1. Yes I can.
Describe different personal styles
2. Mostly, yes.
Give advice
3. Not yet.

58 | UNIT 4

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 22 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 129 ────────

TEACHING OPTION: Speaking practice
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
To add speaking practice to the task in B, you could
WARM-UP 10 min
put students in pairs so they work together. Have
Explain that you are going to start the lesson
students exchange their books with another pair.
with a guessing game. Every student in the class
Then have pairs read each of the two profiles in
has to secretly choose a person in the class and
front of them and discuss what clothes, shoes and
write a short description (about four sentences)
accessories might be appropriate. Once they have
of what that person is wearing. For example, He
agreed, one of them should write down their ideas
is wearing casual clothes today. He’s wearing a
in the Personal Shopper’s Suggestions. Organizing
stylish sweater. Then have students work in pairs
the exercise this way means students can help
and read their descriptions to each other. Their
each other with ideas and vocabulary as well as
partner has to guess who they are describing in
providing speaking fluency practice.
the class.

C Return your partner’s book to him or her. Then do
A WRITING Imagine you signed up for an online
the following: 10 min
clothing service. Complete the information about
As a class, read through the Useful Expressions.
your personal style. Turn to the Unit 4 Writing
Then have students return their books and one
appendix to see an example profile. 10–15 min
student should give their advice to another. If
So that students understand the type of
you followed the Teaching Option above with
language they need to use in their style profile,
students working in pairs, then students could
have them turn to the Writing appendix, read the
work in groups of four with one pair giving
example profile, and underline any useful words
another pair their advice.
or phrases they could reuse in their own writing.
Then have students work alone and complete
D Switch roles and repeat the steps in C. 10 min
the profile. As students write, monitor their
Have students repeat the exercise in C by
progress and make suggestions or provide any
swapping their partner (or partners).
vocabulary they need.

TEACHING ONLINE
B Exchange books with a partner and read his
For online teaching, students could do A and B
or her profile in A. As your partner’s personal
remotely by writing the profile in A and emailing or
shopper, think of six items for him or her. Write
texting it back and forth to a partner. Ask them also
your ideas below. 10–15 min
to send copies of their writing to you so you can
Have students exchange their books and read
check on their use of language. Having assigned A
each other’s profile. Also, draw their attention
and B as homework to be completed before class,
to the Word Bank and the explanation of the
you can have students meet with their partner in a
word accessory. As students read each other’s
breakout room online to complete C and D.
writing and think of their suggestions, also set
aside time for them to check each other’s writing
Diagnostics
for any errors. Suggest they put a circle around
Check students’ competencies as follows:
anything they think is a mistake.
• Are students able to describe different personal
styles?
WRITING TIP: Peer feedback
• Can they write a personal description?
Asking students to give each other peer feedback
• Are they able to give someone else advice?
on their writing can be very useful; it makes writing
a supportive process. However, when you ask
students to read each other’s writing and identify
© National Geographic Learning4B
GOALS
any mistakes, this needs to be done sensitively so
no one feels upset by feedback from their peers.
Review students’ self-assessment in the
One option is to have students complete these
goals box. Point out to students where
two sentences about their partner’s writing, which
they learned these skills in the unit. If they
ensures they give positive feedback first and then
rated their ability below Yes, I can, they can
make a suggestion for improvement:
turn back to those pages and review the
exercises.
• One thing I really liked about your writing is that
you . . .
Describe different personal styles:
Vocabulary, page 53, B–C; Active English,
• One thing you could do is . . .
page 58, A–D
Give advice: Grammar, page 57, A–C

Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson B | 58a

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 23 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 130 ────────

EXTRA! A third viewing
GLOBAL VOICES
The exercise in C exploits the part of the video
WARM-UP 5 min
where Amanda describes the process. If you would
Write the word Rent on the board. Ask students
like to play the video again and make more use of
what things people can rent, and write their ideas
the second half of the video, have students watch
on the board. Typical examples might be an
again and make notes on these two areas (which
apartment, a car, DIY tools, and a bicycle. However,
you can list on the board): The advantages and The
these days people are also starting to rent other
future trends.
items such as musical instruments, photography
Afterwards, students can compare what they wrote
equipment, and clothes.
and then share with the rest of the class. Their notes
should include the following:
ABOUT THE VIDEO
1. The advantages: less expensive, try before
The video looks at the new trend of rental fashion, in
buying, wear new fashion on social media,
which you can rent clothes. Fashion expert Amanda
environmentally friendly
Cosco introduces this video and she explains
how rental fashion works and how it is one of the
2. The future trends: it’s part of the sharing economy,
fastest growing trends in the fashion world. She also
younger generations prefer to spend money on
outlines three key advantages compared to buying
experiences, so don’t mind sharing items
clothes. Amanda describes herself as a “fashion
10–15 min
futurist” (someone who studies and predicts the
future of fashion). You can also find out more about
Amanda by visiting her company website: search
VIDEO VIEWING TIP: Video note-taking skills
with the words Electric Runway.
One of the challenges of using video in the
classroom comes when we give students specific
questions to answer. This involves reading a
A Where do you usually buy clothes? Have you
question and trying to write specific words while
ever rented clothing? Tell a partner. 3–5 min
watching. Note-taking, on the other hand, is a more
Briefly discuss these questions as a class. If
authentic task, and it’s possible to write words and
any of your students have experience renting
phrases about a general area while watching. As
clothes, encourage them to tell the whole class
more and more content is delivered by video in the
how it works; ask them questions such as: Where
21st century, developing video note-taking skills in
did you look? What did you rent? How long did
this way is becoming more and more important.
you rent it for? Was it inexpensive?

D Work in pairs and imagine you are a new rental
B Watch a video about clothing rental with Amanda
fashion company. Write a short ad for your
Cosco, a fashion reporter. Check (✓) the questions
company. In the ad, explain: 15–20 min
she answers in the video. 10 min
To complete this exercise, students will need to
Give students time to read the questions. Then
draw on some of the vocabulary and ideas in
answer any questions about vocabulary. Play the
the video. Students should include information
video and have students identify the questions
listed in D such as the type of clothes, how the
she asks. These questions also appear on the
service works, and the benefits. In addition,
screen, so the task is fairly straightforward.
ask the class what ads often include, such as a
The objective is for students to make sure they
good slogan, the name of the company, a photo,
understand the main questions in the video, but
and customer recommendations. Ask students
they should also start to understand some of her
to include this kind of content as well in their
responses.
advertisements.

Afterwards, have students swap their ads with
C Watch the video again and number the steps in
other pairs or have them post the ads around
the process of renting clothes (1–6). 10 min
© National Geographic Learningthe class and let them walk around to see them.
Before watching the video a second time,
In an online class, students could post their ads
students could try to guess the correct order of
on an online notice board such as Padlet or your
the six steps for renting clothes. Then they can
class LMS.
watch and check their guesses.

59a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 4, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 24 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 131 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES

A Where do you usually buy clothes? Have you ever rented clothing? Tell a partner.

B Watch a video about clothing rental with Amanda Cosco, a fashion reporter. Check (✓) the
questions she answers in the video.
✓    ✓
1. What is rental fashion?    5. What will be the future trends in rental
✓
2. How does rental fashion work?    fashion?
✓    ✓
3. Why would a customer rent clothes    6. How should I get started?
instead of buying them?    7. How long does it take for the clothing
4. When did rental fashion become    to arrive in the mail?
popular?

C Watch the video again and number the steps in the process of renting clothes (1–6).
4
a. Receive the clothes at your house.
2
b. Agree to pay an amount each month.
5
c. Keep them for about a month and then return them.
1
d. Sign up for a subscription.
3
e. Choose a few items of clothing.
6
f. The company cleans the clothes and rents them again.

D Work in pairs and imagine you are a new rental fashion company. Write a short ad
for your company. In the ad, explain:

• how the service works • the benefits of the service
• the types of clothes you offer
Then exchange ads with another pair. Would you like to use their service? Why or why not?

Some rental fashion companies
started with formal clothing only,
but now most have
casual clothes, too.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 59

WLTB_L2_U04_ptg01.indd 25 30/04/21 1:13 PM

──────── Page 132 ────────

UNIT 5

ABOUT THE PHOTO
The photo shows the Plaza del
Chorro de Quevedo. It is one
Tourists and locals come
of the main historic squares in
together in Chorro de
Bogotá, which is the capital city
Quevedo, a small plaza in the
La Candelaria neighborhood
of Colombia. People believe
of Bogota, Colombia.
that the city was founded in this
square on August 6, 1538. People
often meet around the public
water fountain in the middle of
the square. It’s an area that is
popular with tourists and locals,
including college students. The
cobblestone square and streets
around have beautiful, colorful
houses. During the day, you can
see street performers, and in the
evening, the local bars and cafes
are very busy.

INTRODUCE THE THEME
In this unit, students will explore
the concept of neighborhoods,
how we get around them, and
the chores and errands we do
in them.

In Lesson A, students start by
watching a video about a day in
the life of the city of Shanghai.
Students will then learn to
describe chores and explain
which ones they can do in their
neighborhood. They develop the
strategy of listening for gist and
the ability to hear reduced forms
in pronunciation. They also learn
how to make appointments and
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
requests.
/ Talk about chores and errands    / Compare ways of getting around
/ Make appointments and requests    / Describe your neighborhood
In Lesson B, students learn to
describe the transportation in a
neighborhood. They read about
transportation in the city of La Paz
city. Then elicit from students any
they come from different
and think critically about the pros
words they predict might appear
neighborhoods. If many of your
and cons of different types of
in the unit, such as transportation,
students come from the same
transportation. They also practice
cafes, or streets. Also mention the
district, make sure they talk about
using relative clauses and end by
word neighbor and clarify that it
other neighborhoods in the city as
© National Geographic Learning
giving a tour of a city.
means a person who lives next
well as their own.
door to you.
WARM-UP 5 min
WARM-UP VIDEO
Look at the photo. Answer the
Write the word Neighborhood
questions. 5–10 min
About the video
on the board. First of all, say the
Following the Warm-Up, ask
This video is taken from National
word and check that students
students to open their books
Geographic’s Short Film
know how to pronounce it. Then
and answer the three questions
Showcase, in which filmmakers
ask if anyone can define it for
in pairs or small groups. When
get to share their work. In this
you and make sure everyone
you assign partners or groups,
video, the filmmaker JT Singh
understands that it refers to a
try to mix students up so that
takes you around some of the
district or community in a town or

60 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 5

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 60 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 133 ────────

5
most interesting neighborhoods
of Shanghai—China’s most
populated city. Unlike previous
videos, this film has no script;
MY
instead, we see fast-moving
images of people and the places
they live, which you can exploit in
class.
NEIGHBORHOODLOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
QUESTIONS.

1. Do you live in a city like this?
A You are going to watch a
2. Where do you think these people are going?
video showing different
3. What is a popular neighborhood in your city?
neighborhoods in Shanghai,
China. Write down a list of five
WARM-UP VIDEO
things you think you will see in
the video (for example, a traffic
A You are going to watch a video showing
jam). Then share your list with
different neighborhoods in Shanghai, China.
Write down a list of five things you think you
a partner. 10 min
will see in the video (for example, a traffic jam).
Have students predict what
Then share your list with a partner.
they think they might see in
B Watch the video and check (✓) the things you
the video individually. Then
see on your list from A.
ask them to compare their lists
with a partner’s. While talking
C Watch the video again and number the
to their partner, they can make
activities (1–8) in the order you see them.
1
changes to their list if they
a. Someone is taking an elevator.
5
want to before watching.
b. A girl is learning to play a musical
instrument.
7
c. A young woman is washing her hair.
B Watch the video and check (✓)
4
d. Someone is doing laundry.
the things you see on your list
6
e. A young man is listening to music
from A. 10 min
on the subway.
3
f. Someone is sweeping the sidewalk.
Play the video. Remind
2
g. A man is brushing his teeth.
students to watch and check
8
h. People are waiting on their bicycles
if it shows their words in A.
and scooters.
Note that the video moves
very quickly, so you might
D In pairs, discuss the questions.
want to play it twice in case
1. What three adjectives do you think best
students miss certain images.
describe the city of Shanghai?
Afterwards, students can work
2. If you made a similar video of your town or
city, what places and activities would you
in their pairs and say which
show? Why?
words they saw.

C Watch the video again and
number the activities (1–8)
in parts. For example, the video
then make a list of places or
in the order you see them.
about Shanghai is about three
activities they might show. In
10–15 min
minutes long, so you can stop it
order to answer item 2, it’s
Again, students might need to
after every minute. When you stop
better if students work with a
watch the video twice. After
it, check answers so far before
partner from the same town
© National Geographic Learning
the first viewing, they can try to
you play the next part. It’s a useful
or city. If this isn’t possible,
number the activities and then
way to check that everyone is
they can work with a partner
watch again to check.
keeping up, rather than waiting
from a different place and
until the end.
compare the types of things
they might show.
VIDEO VIEWING TIP: Playing a
video in parts
D In pairs, discuss the questions.
If you worry about the difficulties
5–10 min
of showing a whole video and
Put students into pairs or
students being able to note all the
groups of three. Ask students
answers, you can always play it
to think of adjectives and

Teacher’s Book UNIT 5 | 61

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 61 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 134 ────────

5A CHORES AND ERRANDS

VOCABULARY
WORD BANK
You do household chores like
A Look at the photo below. What household chore is Janice
cleaning and washing in your home.
You run errands around your
doing? What does “the good old Kansas wind” do?
Janice is doing the laundry and hanging her clothes outside.
neighborhood (for example, going to
“The good old Kansas wind” dries the clothes.
the post office).
B Work with a partner. Match the sentence parts.
c
1. You do the dishes
a. at school in the morning.
g
2. You do laundry
b. for dinner at a restaurant.
a
3. You drop off your younger brother or sister
c. after you eat.
i
4. You go grocery shopping
d. the floors
b
5. You make a reservation
e. in the evening.
f
6. You make a doctor’s appointment
f. when you feel sick.
e
7. You make dinner
g. when your clothes are dirty.
j
8. You pick up your younger brother or sister
h. the rugs
d
9. You sweep to remove dust and dirt.
i. when you have no food in the house.
h
10. You vacuum to remove dust and dirt.
j. from school in the afternoon.

C Which of the phrases in blue are chores? Which are errands? Some don’t fit in either group.
Chores: do the dishes, do laundry, make dinner, sweep, vacuum Errands: drop off, go grocery shopping, pick up

D Complete the questions with verbs from B. Use the correct form of each verb.
do
1. Do you ever the dishes?
made
2. When was the last time you dinner for yourself? What did you eat?
does
3. Who usually the laundry in your house?
sweep vacuum
4. How often do you the floor or the rug in your bedroom?
made
5. When was the last time you an appointment for yourself? Who did you see?
go
6. When you grocery shopping, what’s something you always buy?
make
7. What’s your favorite place to eat out? Do you have to a reservation?
drop pick
8. Do you ever off or up someone at school?

E Take turns asking and answering the questions in D with a partner.

© National Geographic Learning
Janice Haney, from
Greensburg, Kansas
(US), is doing laundry.
She hangs her
clothes outside so
“the good old Kansas
wind” can dry them.

62 | UNIT 5

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 62 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 135 ────────

LANGUAGE TIP: Phrasal verbs (drop off, pick up)
5A CHORES AND ERRANDS
At this level, students might not be familiar with the
term “phrasal verbs,” but they will probably have
VOCABULARY
seen and used them at lower levels; for example
phrasal verbs like get up (in the morning), look
WARM-UP 5 min
up (in your dictionary). You could draw students’
With books closed, ask students, What are some
attention to the phrasal verbs drop off and pick up
things you always have to do around the house? For
on this page and find out what students know about
example, cleaning. Ask, Do you enjoy doing any of
such verbs and if they know any others. Explain that
them? Which ones do you really dislike?
phrasal verbs have a main verb plus a participle or
smaller word (a preposition or adverb) and that they
A Look at the photo below. What household chore
will see more and more as they study English.
is Janice doing? What does “the good old Kansas
wind” do? 3 min
Answer the questions together as a class. Ask
C Which of the phrases in blue are chores? Which
students why they think the caption uses the words
are errands? Some don’t fit in either group.
“good old” to describe Kansas winds. It probably
10 min
means that winds are normal and happen often
Elicit an example of a chore and errand from the
in Kansas. They are “good” for drying clothes.
words in blue. Then have students work alone
Also draw students’ attention to the title of the
or in pairs. For any fast finishers, you could ask
lesson and to the Word Bank, which defines the
them to think of three more chores or errands to
difference between chores and errands.
add to the lists.

B Work with a partner. Match the sentence parts.
D Complete the questions with verbs from B. Use
10 min
the correct form of each verb. 10 min
Go over the vocabulary items in blue, having
The questions mix the simple present and the
students explain the meanings. If they don’t
simple past, so you could review the simple past
know the meaning, have them look it up. Then
by asking, What errands did you do yesterday?
assign students to pairs to match the sentence
Write the simple past forms of the different verbs
parts. Check answers with the class.
on the board as students use them. Then have
students complete the questions individually.
Point out that they need to think about whether
EXTRA! Mime the activity
they need a past or present form. Check
Choose one of the phrases in blue and mime it to
answers with the class.
the class. Have students guess which phrases you
are miming. Next, invite the student who guesses
correctly first to the front of the class and ask them to
E Take turns asking and answering the questions in
mime an activity to the class. Then the next student
D with a partner. 10–15 min
who guesses first comes up and mimes another. You
If necessary, you could ask students to work
can either continue like this until most of the actions
alone at first and write their answers to each of
have been mimed, or you could put students into
the questions. Otherwise, assign students to
pairs and have them take turns miming and guessing.
new pairs to ask and answer the questions in
5–10 min
D. Monitor and provide help as necessary. Ask
follow-up questions to encourage students to
say more. You can extend the exercise for further
LANGUAGE TIP: Collocations
practice by having students switch partners and
Two or more words that are often used together
repeat the exercise.
are called a collocation. When learning new words,
students should get into the habit of writing any
EXPANSION: Doing chores
common verbs that go with a noun. There are many
© National Geographic Learning
Write on the board, What chores and errands do
examples of collocations within the context of doing
people actually enjoy? Which ones do they dislike
chores and running errands.
the most? Does anyone in the group have no
do: do the dishes, do the laundry
responsibilities at home?
drop off: drop off (someone), drop off dry cleaning
Assign students to groups of four or five to discuss
their answers. You can follow up with informal
make: make the bed, make breakfast / lunch /
questions to some of the groups, or assign
dinner / a snack, make a reservation / an
reporters in advance and have them report more
appointment
formally to the whole class. 10 min
go: go grocery shopping

Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson A | 62a

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 63 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 136 ────────

EXTRA! Continue the conversation
LISTENING
For further practice, have students choose one of
WARM-UP 5 min
the four conversations in B. Ask them to complete
With books closed, say, Many people make phone
the phone conversation based on what they hear
calls for their jobs, and everyone makes personal
in the audio and their choice of sentence in B. If
phone calls. Ask, What personal calls do you make
necessary, play the audio one more time to remind
that are not to your family or friends? Do you call the
students of what was said. Afterwards, they can
doctor? The hair salon? Write their answers on the
perform their telephone conversation for the class.
board in list form.
10 min

A Listen for gist. Read the sentences. Then listen
C PRONUNCIATION: Reduced forms of could
to four different phone calls. Circle the correct
you and would you Listen. Notice the reduced
words to complete each sentence. 31 5–10 min
pronunciation of could you and would you in
each question. Then repeat the questions. 32
With books closed, play the audio once. Tell
10–15 min
students to open their books and complete as
many sentences as they can. Play the audio
Write could you and would you on the board.
again, one conversation at a time, so that
Pronounce them in the unreduced form and then
students can check their answers and complete
the reduced form (could you /k ʊd ju/, couldja
the missing ones. Pause the audio after each
/k ʊd͡ ʒə/). Explain that this is how American
conversation to discuss the answer with the class.
English speakers usually pronounce these
If needed, play the conversation once more to
phrases. Play the audio once, then again,
confirm the answers.
pausing after each question for students to
repeat. Ask a few individuals to read a question.
Listen for gist. Remind students that listening
Correct pronunciation if necessary.
for gist means understanding the main idea.
They shouldn’t try to understand everything
D PRONUNCIATION: Reduced forms of could
or worry about words they don’t understand.
you and would you Listen to the questions.
Instead, they should keep listening and focus
Circle the words you hear. 33 10 min
on understanding the main idea of each
conversation.
Tell students to look at the questions and listen.
Remind them that both phrases are correct; it is
B Identify the response. What would the speaker
only the sound that is different. Check answers,
say next in each conversation? Listen again and
and then play the audio again to confirm them.
circle your answers. Some items have two correct
answers. 31 10 min
TEACHING OPTION: Transcription 5 min
With books closed, ask students what they
For a more challenging alternative to D (or in
remember of the four conversations in A. Who
addition to D), ask students to close their books
was called? (Examples: a restaurant, a dry
before you play the audio. Tell them to write out the
cleaner). What did the caller want? (Examples:
four sentences they hear. Then have them open
to change a reservation, to pick up pants).
their books to compare what they heard and wrote
Students need to choose the next thing that
with what is written on the page.
would be said in each conversation. Play the
audio again. Pause between calls in order to
give students a chance to read the possible
E With a partner, take turns asking the questions in
answers and choose which are correct for each
C and D with the reduced forms of could you and
conversation. When you check the answers as
would you. Reply to the questions. 10 min
a class, ask students to explain why the other
In pairs, have students take turns asking and
answer(s) would NOT work in each conversation.
answering the questions. You can provide possible
© National Geographic Learning
Identify the response. Exercise B asks students
answers—for example, Yes, of course. / Sure, no
to complete a conversation that requires them to
problem. / Sorry, I can’t.—or have students use
1) understand what is being said; 2) identify the
their own ideas. The focus of the exercise is on the
situation; and 3) understand which reply makes
appropriate pronunciation of could you and would
the most sense. Being able to identify why a
you, not on the answers, but it is an opportunity
different answer would NOT work is as important
for students to respond naturally using the
as understanding why an answer is correct. Ask
language they have. Walk around, listening to their
students to explain their answer in order to show
pronunciation and helping as needed. Continue the
that they understand the language and are not
exercise until you have heard everyone speak.
just guessing.

63a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 64 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 137 ────────

LISTENING

A Listen for gist. Read the sentences. Then listen to four different phone calls.
Circle the correct words to complete each sentence. 31

1. The woman is calling to make / change a hotel / restaurant reservation.
2. The man wants to drop off / pick up his pants / shirts at the dry cleaner.
3. The man is calling to make / change an appointment with a doctor / dentist.
4. The girl needs a ride to school / the doctor’s office.

B What would the speaker say next in each conversation? Listen again and circle your answers.
Some items have two correct answers. 31

1. a. Sorry, but the only other time available is 9:00 pm.
b. Yes, we can add two more people to the reservation.
c. Sure, no problem. How is 7:30 for you?
2. a. No, tomorrow’s better.
b. Perfect. I’ll see you at 5:00.
c. Okay, I can drop them off later.
3. a. Ten works for me. See you then.
b. Great. See you tomorrow afternoon.
c. That doesn’t work for me. Do you have anything later?
4. a. OK, I’ll see you at school later.
b. Sure. I’ll pick you up in fifteen minutes.
c. Yes, it is.

C PRONUNCIATION: Reduced forms of could you and would you Listen. Notice the reduced
pronunciation of could you and would you in each question. Then repeat the questions. 32

1. Could you open the window, please?
2. Could you drop me off at school?
3. Would you mind making dinner tonight?
4. Would you pick up your socks from the floor?

D PRONUNCIATION: Reduced forms of could you and would you Listen to the questions.
Circle the words you hear. 33

1. Could you / Would you turn down the TV, please?
2. Could you / Would you make a dinner reservation for four people?
3. Could you / Would you spell your last name, please?
© National Geographic Learning
4. Could you / Would you take notes for me in class today?

E With a partner, take turns asking the questions in C and D with the reduced forms of could you and
would you. Reply to the questions.

Could you open the window,
please? Sure! No
problem.

Sorry, but
I’m too cold.
Lesson A | 63

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 65 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 138 ────────

SPEAKING
Hairdresser
Mario Hvala
A Listen to the conversation. Then answer the
creates a “hair
questions with a partner. 34
tattoo” of Lionel
Messi for a
Martina: Hello, Metro Salon. This is Martina.
soccer fan in
Minh: Yeah, hi. I’d like to make an appointment
Serbia.
for a haircut on Friday. Is Carlos working
that day?

Martina: I can help you with that! Let’s see . . .
Yes, Carlos is available on Friday. Can
you come in at 10:30?

Minh: No, that time isn’t good for me. Do you
have anything later in the day?

Martina: Let me check. OK, how’s 4:15?

Minh: That’s perfect.

Martina: Great. Now, I just need to get your name.

Minh: It’s Minh Nguyen.

Martina: Could you spell your last name for me,
please?

Minh: Sure, it’s N-G-U-Y-E-N.

1. Why is Minh calling the salon?
To make an appointment to get a hair cut
2. When is he planning to go there?
Friday at 4:15

SPEAKING STRATEGY 35
B Practice the conversation with a partner.
Making appointments
I’m calling to . . . / I’d like to . . .
C With a partner, create a new conversation like the one in A.
make an appointment with a counselor /
Use the situation below and at least two expressions
Dr. Smith / the dentist.
from the Speaking Strategy.
make a doctor’s / hair appointment.
reschedule my appointment / our
Student A: You want to make an appointment with a
meeting.
student counselor on Tuesday afternoon.
Scheduling the time
Student B: You work at the student counselor’s office.
Can you come in / Could we meet /
On Tuesday, the counselor is free at
How’s tomorrow at 2:00?
11:30 am. She is also free after 12 pm on
That’s perfect. / That works for me.
Wednesday and Thursday.
No, that (time / day) doesn’t work for me.

© National Geographic Learning
D Switch roles and repeat with the situation below.
Student A: You and your classmate usually meet on Tuesday to study. You want to reschedule for
Wednesday at 1:00, but you can also meet on Friday.

Student B: You can only meet on Thursday or Friday after 1:00.

64 | UNIT 5

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 66 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 139 ────────

describe the situation in their own words. Correct
SPEAKING
any inaccuracies or let other students comment.
Then let students read the situation on the page.
WARM-UP 5 min
Ask students to look at the photo of the hairdresser
Have students develop a conversation in pairs
creating a hair tattoo. Ask students if they have ever
and practice it. They can write it down if they
seen this kind of design on someone’s hair. Ask,
want to, but they should not look at the paper
Would you get a similar hair tattoo? Which famous
when performing. Monitor and provide help as
person would you tattoo?
necessary.

CULTURE TIP: Appointments
A Listen to the conversation. Then answer the
questions with a partner. 34 10–15 min
In most English-speaking countries, arriving on time
for an appointment is considered polite. For hair,
Students can listen and read for the answers
doctor, or school appointments, you are expected
to the questions individually. Alternatively,
to arrive a few minutes before your appointment
put students in pairs and read the two
so you are already settled when the person you
comprehension questions. With books closed,
are going to see is ready for you. Arriving on time
play the audio while students listen. Give them a
is acceptable, but arriving late is considered rude.
little time to discuss their answers. Play the audio
Some places will even cancel your appointment
again and check answers on the board. Answer
if you arrive later than 10 minutes after your
any questions about vocabulary. Play the audio
appointed time. In many Latin American countries,
a third time, sentence by sentence, and have
the time you should arrive depends on what type
students repeat.
of appointment it is. It is usually considered fine
if you arrive 10–15 minutes late for hair or doctor
B Practice the conversation with a partner. 10 min
appointments, since it is expected that they are
While students are speaking, walk around to
running behind, too. Ask students what the rules are
comment, guide them, and answer questions.
for arriving at appointments in their culture(s).
Speak with as many pairs as possible. They can
look at the book, but remind them to look at their
D Switch roles and repeat with the situation below.
partner when either of them is speaking.
10–15 min

This conversation is more realistic if Student B
TEACHING OPTION: Support and challenge
doesn’t know when Student A is free, and vice
5–10 min
versa, so do the exercise with books closed.
If some pairs that work fast seem bored and ready
Bring in slips of paper with the situations for
to stop, tell them to close their books and say the
Student A and Student B. Monitor and provide
conversation (approximately) from memory. Tell
help as necessary. When they have a good
them if they get stuck, they can open their books
conversation and have practiced it, they can
and look at the conversation again for 30 seconds
perform it for the whole class.
before closing it and continuing. If possible, check
back to see how they are doing.
EXPANSION: Whole-class exercise
For further practice with the language of making
SPEAKING STRATEGY 35
appointments, ask students to write down the
Let students read and listen to the expressions for
seven days of the week like a page in a planner
making appointments and scheduling the time. As
or calendar. Then ask them to think of one thing
they study the list, they could also underline any of
they are doing on each day at a certain time. Ask
the expressions that are used in the conversation
students to fill in their page so each day has an
in A so they see how the expressions are used in
activity and a time next to it. Next, everyone stands
context. You might need to explain the meaning and
up and moves around the class meeting different
use of the words reschedule and scheduling.
© National Geographic Learning
people. When they meet one person, they make
an appointment on a day at a time and write down
the person’s name. Then they go to the next person
C With a partner, create a new conversation like the
and repeat the exercise until they have met five or
one in A. Use the situation below and at least two
six different people and arranged to meet them on
expressions from the Speaking Strategy. 15 min
different days. 15–20 min
Either let students read about the situation or
have students close their books and read the
situation aloud yourself. Then ask two students to

Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson A | 64a

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 67 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 140 ────────

1. Could you to help me with this, please? (Could
GRAMMAR
you help me with this, please?)
WARM-UP 5 min
2. Would you mind help me, please? (Would you
On the board, write, Could you turn down the TV?
mind helping me, please?)
Under it, write, Turn down the TV and Turn down
3. Sure, I’d be glad. (Sure, I’d be glad to.)
that TV! Read the three sentences with appropriate
tone and emphasis (and reduction of could you).
4. Sorry, I like to, but I can’t. (Sorry, I’d like to, but I
Discuss the three sentences with the class. Ask,
can’t.)
Which sentence is most polite? Write on the board,
Would you mind turning down the TV, please? Point
5. Can you making dinner tonight? (Can you make
out the expression would you mind + verb + -ing
dinner tonight?)
and explain that it is a more polite way of making a
6. Not problem. I’ll do it. (No problem. I’ll do it.)
request. Make sure students notice the difference
between would / could you + base verb and would
7. Would you mind drop me off here? (Would you
you mind + verb + -ing.
drop me off here? / Would you mind dropping me
off here?)
A Read the Unit 5, Lesson A Grammar Reference
8. No, no at all. (No, not at all.) 5–10 min
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below. 20–30 min
Go over the requests in the chart. Elicit more
C Work with a partner and follow the steps.
examples by having students make classroom
15–20 min
requests; for example, Would you mind lending
The steps for this exercise might look
me a pen, please? Could I borrow your eraser,
complicated, but if you do each step together as
please? Could you lend me your eraser, please?
a class, it is straightforward. Assign students to
Would you mind closing the door / cleaning the
pairs. For step 1, it’s useful if you hold up a piece
board / opening the window / helping me, please?
of paper and tear it into 16 pieces. Have each
Remind students of the difference between borrow
pair of students copy you. Have them number the
and lend if necessary (lend something to someone /
pieces 1–8 and check that everyone also writes
borrow something from someone). Remind
Yes and No on the remaining pieces. Then have
students that Would you mind . . . ? is a little
students place the pieces of paper face down
more polite than Could you . . . ? Have students
on the desk. You could invite a volunteer student
complete the exercises on pages 193–194.
to the front and, using your pieces of paper, you
Alternatively, you could have students complete
could demonstrate how to complete steps 2, 3,
the exercises for homework the day before and
and 4 so the whole class can see.
check understanding during class.

TEACHING ONLINE
B Complete the conversations with the missing
With online classes, nominate two students in
words. Some items have more than one possible
the class as Student A and Student B. Then call
answer. 5–10 min
out any number between 1 and 8 for Student A
and the word Yes or No for Student B. The two
Students can work individually to complete the two
students practice the conversation in front of the
conversations and then compare their answers
class. Once students have the main idea of making
in pairs. Remind them that there is more than one
short conversations with the requests in 1–8, tell
possible answer in some cases, so they may have
them to work in pairs in breakout rooms and work
written different answers. After you have checked
through all eight items with Student A requesting the
the answers, students could work in pairs and
odd numbers and Student B requesting the even
practice reading the two conversations aloud,
numbers. The person responding Yes or No can
remembering to use reduced forms of Could you
decide which response to give.
and Would you when speaking.
© National Geographic Learning
EXTRA! Spot the mistake
D Think about the requests you made in C. For any
For extra practice, tell students you are going to
of them, did you use Would you mind . . . ? Why or
read aloud eight sentences that contain mistakes.
why not? 10 min
With their books closed, they must listen, raise their
As a class, have students share for which requests
hand if they think they know the mistake, and repeat
they used Would you mind . . . ? and why. Write
the sentences back to you correctly (without the
the requests on the board and have the class
mistake). Here are the sentences, with the correct
make corrections as necessary. Have students say
sentences in parentheses:
the same requests using Would / Could you . . . ?
to check use of the different verb forms.

65a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 68 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 141 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 5, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

REQUESTS WITH MODAL VERBS AND MIND

Making requests Responding to requests

Sure, no problem. / I’d be glad to. /
Can / Will you
help    Of course. / Sure thing.
Could / Would you
me, please?    Sorry, / I’d like to, but I can’t.
No, not at all. / No, I’d be glad to.
Would you mind helping
Sorry, / I’d like to, but I can’t.

B Complete the conversations with the missing words. Some items have more than one possible answer.
Could / Would / Can / Will
1. A: Hey, Jin! (1.) you do me a favor? Would you
mind
(2.) helping me move this box? It’s really heavy.
all
B: No, not at (3.) !
A: Great, thanks!
Can / Will / Could / Would
2. A: Sura, (4.) you take notes for me in class tomorrow? I have a dental
appointment.
like
B: Sorry, I’d (5.) to, but I won’t be in class tomorrow, either.
problem
A: No (6.) . I’ll ask someone else.

C Work with a partner and follow the steps.
1. Take sixteen small pieces of paper. On eight of them, write the numbers 1 to 8. Shuffle these and
put them facedown on the desk. Then on four pieces of paper, write the word Yes. On the other
four, write No. Shuffle these and put them facedown in a different pile.

2. Imagine that you and your partner are college roommates. Read the list of activities in the box.

1. make dinner tonight
2. take notes for me in class tomorrow
3. pick up my clothes at the dry cleaner
4. drop me off at the mall
5. loan me some money for lunch
6. be a little quieter after 11:00 pm
7. do my laundry
8. introduce me to your cute friend

© National Geographic Learning
3. Student A: Turn over a number (1–8). Ask your roommate to do this activity from the list. Explain
why you need the favor.

4. Student B: Turn over a Yes / No paper and respond in an appropriate way. Remember, when
responding to a Would you mind . . .? request, you should say, No, not at all. or No, I’d be glad to.
if you can do what they asked.

5. Switch roles and repeat steps 3 and 4. Take turns and continue until you discuss all eight favors.

D Think about the requests you made in C. For any of them, did you use Would
you mind . . . ? Why or why not?

Lesson A | 65

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 69 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 142 ────────

In Japan, you can hire a
benriya. This is a person who
Don’t feel like
fixes things, does household
waiting? Hire
chores, and runs errands.
a benriya to
A benriya can also help you
stand in line
study, be your travel partner
for you.
on a trip, or even break
up with your boyfriend or
girlfriend for you.

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Look at the photo and read the information. What would you pay a benriya to do for you?

B Work with a partner and create your own benriya service. Answer the questions.
• What services do you offer (doing housework, running errands, fixing things, etc.)?
• How much do you charge for each service?
• What is your company’s name, and when do you work?

C Find a new partner and follow the steps below. Use the example conversation to help you. Then
switch roles and repeat.

1. Call your new partner’s benriya service.    A: Hello, Handy Helpers Service.
2. Use your idea from A. Explain what you    How can I help you?
want the service to do for you.    B: Hi. I’d like some information about your

3. Ask what your partner’s service charges.    service.
4. Make an appointment with the service.    A: Sure, what exactly do you need us to do?
B: I want to break up with my boyfriend.

A: No problem! We can do that for you.

B: Great. Could you tell me how much you
charge, please?

© National Geographic Learning
D Repeat C with three other partners. Of the four benriya services you talked to, which is the best?
Tell the class.

5A GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Talk about chores and errands
2. Mostly, yes.
Make appointments and requests
3. Not yet.

66 | UNIT 5

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 70 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 143 ────────

anyone would like to use this service. Then
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
have students work in pairs and prepare and
role-play a similar conversation using ideas
WARM-UP 5 min
from A. One alternative is to have students
With books closed, ask, What difficult things have
write out the conversation in full using language
you done in your personal life? Did you ever have
from the example. Then they can practice the
to apologize to a friend? Did you break up with
conversation until they feel confident without
your boyfriend or girlfriend? Did you think, “I don’t
the script. At the end, ask pairs to perform their
want to do this! Why can’t somebody else do this
conversations.
for me?”

TEACHING OPTION
CULTURE TIP: Benriya
The service that a caller wants may not be offered
Although it isn’t an exact translation, the closest
by the company they call, so write this on the board
word in English for benriya is handyman, referring
for students to refer to and use:
to someone who can fix things or do jobs around
A: Hello, Handy Helpers Service. How can I help
the house. In Japan, it’s estimated that there are
you?
about 5,000 people working as benriya, with 1,000
in Tokyo. Most of them are male and will do any job,
B: Yes, hello. I’m calling because . . .
such as those around the house, for example. Some
A: I’m sorry. We don’t offer that service here.
benriya specialize in certain skills such as breaking
up relationships or avoiding paying debts.
B: Oh. Thanks anyway.

A Look at the photo and read the information. What
D Repeat C with three other partners. Of the four
would you pay a benriya to do for you? 5–10 min
benriya services you talked to, which is the best?
Tell the class. 20 min
Have students look at the photo and say what
the people are standing in line for. Write it on
Ideally, all students should stand for this exercise
the board. Ask, Do you like to wait and stand
and walk up to different partners to practice their
in line? What chores or errands don’t you like
requests. As they talk, they should write down what
doing? Have students read the text and clarify
price the other person charges for the service so
vocabulary as needed. Then have them decide
that they can report back who is the best.
what chore or difficult task they would like a
benriya to do. Have students share their chores
LARGE CLASS OPTION
and tasks and write a list on the board.
In a large class, it may be too disrupting for students
to move across the room to a new partner. Before D,
B Work with a partner and create your own benriya
put students in groups of eight. Have them work in
service. Answer the questions. 10–15 min
pairs, but switch partners within the group.
Review the chores and errands on page 62.
Students can choose some of them for their
Diagnostics
benriya service. Go over the questions. Draw
Check students’ competencies as follows:
a chart on the board for students to copy and
• Are students able to talk about chores and errands?
complete with their answers to the questions:
• Can they request information?
Company name:
• Are they able to make an appointment?
Service Price
1.
5A
GOALS
2.
Review students’ self-assessment in the
3.
© National Geographic Learning
goals box. Point out to students where they
The price can be in dollars or the local currency.
learned these skills in the unit. If they rated
The price should be for the whole service (not
their ability below Yes, I can, then they can
by the hour).
turn back to those pages and review the
exercises.
Talk about chores and errands: Vocabulary,
C Find a new partner and follow the steps below.
page 62, B–E
Use the example conversation to help you. Then
switch roles and repeat. 10–15 min
Make appointments and requests:
Listening, page 63, B; Speaking, page 64,
Start by asking two students to read aloud the
A–D; Grammar, page 65, A–C
example conversation about using a service
to break up with a boyfriend. Ask the class if

Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson A | 66a

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 71 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 144 ────────

As students work through the rest of this unit, tell
5B GETTING AROUND
them to be on the lookout for more examples of
compound nouns.
VOCABULARY
WARM-UP 5 min
MORE WORDS: Compound nouns related to
Write the following words around the board: cyclists,
transportion and cities
pedestrians, road, bus, sidewalk, bike lane, traffic,
airport    taxi driver
bus stop. Check that students know and can
bus stop    taxi stand
pronounce all these words. Explain any that are
unknown. Then tell them to open their books and
crosswalk    traffic jam
look at the photo. With their partner, they need to
mailbox    traffic lights
point at all eight words in the photo.
parking lot    train station

A Read the text and match the words in blue to the
definitions (1–7). Then look at the photo. Do you
B Ask a partner the questions. Answer in two ways:
think this is a walkable area? Why or why not?
with by / on and with a verb. 15 min
10–15 min
In order to complete this task, ask students to
Have students begin by matching the words in
read the Word Bank, which contains vocabulary
blue. They should work with a partner for help
to talk about going to different places. Explain
and they can use a dictionary if necessary. Note
that you can either “go by bike” or “ride a bike.”
that the meaning of get to and get around is very
Both are correct. Also draw attention to the use
similar and students might confuse them. Elicit
of take and catch, as in take a train or catch a
some example sentences such as, I got to my
train. The meaning is similar, but when we are
school on time. / I get around my city by bicycle.
in a hurry, we try to catch a train / taxi / bus and
After you have checked the answers, discuss
when we are relaxed, we are more likely to take a
whether the photo shows a walkable area. To
train / taxi / bus.
the left of the bike lane is a wide sidewalk and
Next have students work in pairs and take turns
beach, so you could call it very walkable.
asking and answering the three questions using
different answers; For example, I usually get
EXTRA! Stressed syllables
around my neighborhood by bike / on foot. I walk /
Make sure students can say the new words in A
ride my bike around my neighborhood.
correctly. When listening to their discussion in A,
you can monitor their pronunciation and afterwards
EXPANSION: A classroom survey
you can say the word and have them repeat it.
For more practice with the vocabulary, put students
They should also mark the stressed syllable in any
into groups. Tell them that their local council wants
multi-syllable words by underlining it. The answers
to improve transportation around their town or city
are: walkable; sidewalks; pedestrians, traffic;
and they want to make it more walkable. The group
cyclists 5 min
has to write a short survey of about six or seven
questions to ask local people about how they travel.
LANGUAGE TIP: Compound nouns
For example, they could include questions like this:
Quite a lot of vocabulary connected with the topic
1. How do you normally travel to school?
of cities and transportation tends to take the form
On foot By car By bus Other
of compound nouns. For example, on this page
there are the compound nouns sidewalk and bike
2. How often do you take a taxi?
lanes. See more compound nouns on this topic in
More Words. You could explain to students that a
Once a week Once a month Never
compound noun is made of more than one word but
© National Geographic Learning
When students have completed writing their
is a single noun. Usually the meaning is clear as
questions, have them stand and take turns
long as you understand both parts of the compound
interviewing five or six other students. Afterwards,
noun. Also note that compound nouns are often
have them go back to their group and report what
written as two separate words, such as bike lane.
they found out. Each group can then summarize
However, sometimes they are written as one
their findings to the whole class, or they could
word, as in sidewalk, and in a few cases we use a
write a report about their survey for homework, with
hyphen, as in part-time. Note that there is no rule
suggestions on how to make the city more walkable
for when we have a space, no space, or hyphen;
and how to improve transportation for getting
it may even vary between different Englishes, and
around. 30 min
native speakers of English don’t always agree. If
in doubt, students should probably leave a space.

67a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 72 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 145 ────────

5B GETTING AROUND

VOCABULARY

A Read the text and match the words in blue to the definitions (1–7). Then look at the photo.
Do you think this a walkable area? Why or why not?

Is your neighborhood walkable? In a walkable neighborhood:

a. It’s easy to get around the city on foot because sidewalks are in good condition.

b. It’s safe for pedestrians to cross the street because there isn’t a lot of traffic.

c. There are bike lanes so cyclists can ride safely.

d. It’s easy to get to other parts of the city by bus or subway.

walkable
1. easy to walk around:
WORD BANK
sidewalks    bike lanes
2. special places to walk or cycle: ,
Describing ways of going
pedestrians    cyclists
places
3. people who walk or ride on bikes: ,
traffic
by / on verbs
4. vehicles (cars, trucks, etc.) on the road:
get around
bike (ride my)
5. to go from place to place in a town or city:
bike
get to
6. to travel somewhere:
bus /    take the bus
on foot
subway / subway
7. by walking:
by
car drive
taxi take a taxi
B Ask a partner the questions. Answer in two ways: with by / on
train take / catch
and with a verb.
a train
1. How do you usually get around your
I usually get around my
on foot walk
neighborhood by car.
neighborhood?

2. How do you get to school or work?
I usually drive.
3. How do you go to other towns or
cities?

© National Geographic Learning
Cyclists ride their bikes on Avenida
Vieira Souto, a busy street with bike
lanes and wide sidewalks in the
Ipanema neighborhood of Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil.

Lesson B | 67

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 73 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 146 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Tell students to look at the title
and the photo with the article.
Ask, Why do you think the article
is called “Flying to Work”? Then
ask them to write down ten verbs
FLYING TO
and nouns that they expect to
read in the article. Next, ask
students to compare their lists
with a partner or in small groups
and explain why they chose their
WORK
words.

Mi Teleférico is an answer to
La Paz’s traffic problem. It
A Answer the questions in pairs.
makes it easier to get around.
5 min

Assign students to pairs and
have them ask and answer
the three questions. This
exercise should be a review
of the vocabulary from the
previous page, but you might
need to clarify the meaning
of the words commute and
passenger. Invite some
students to share their answers
with the rest of the class. You
can also find out who has the
shortest and longest commute
in the class.

LANGUAGE TIP: Word forms

Teach all forms of the word
commute. Point out that the word
Fast Facts: Mi Teleférico
commute is both a verb and a
• Cable cars arrive every
noun. And people who commute
12 seconds.
are called commuters. Ask
• They run from 5 am–10 pm.
• The system carries approximately
students to add these word forms
250,000 people a day.
to their vocabulary notebook.

68 | UNIT 5

B Reading for specific
information. Read the article
and the Fast Facts box on the
left. Answer each question
Bus Cable car
about both the bus and cable
1. Cost
car systems. If the information
2. Time
© National Geographic Learning
isn’t given, write DK (don’t
know). 5–10 min
3. Frequency
4. Number of people
In order to organize students’
answers to this question, it
Ask students to write their
might be helpful to draw this
Reading for specific
answers in the table to
table on the board and have
information. In exercise B,
compare the differences
students copy it down. The
students have to find specific
between the bus and cable
four categories reflect what the
information about the two
car systems. Note that in
four questions are asking.
systems. For one question,
some cases we don’t know the
the answers are not supplied.
answer.
Being able to read for detail

68 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 74 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 147 ────────

and also identify what
information isn’t given is a
La Paz, in Bolivia, is a city that is nearly 12,000
Mi Teleférico is not like other transportation
useful skill for students to
feet (3,650 m) above sea level. The streets
systems. First, it is very popular, so it doesn’t
develop. It is also a reading
are steep, and getting around on foot can be
need any money from the city. It pays for itself.
skill that is tested on many
challenging. It also has heavy traffic that moves
Second, Doppelmayr, an Austrian company
international exams, such as
slowly, so it isn’t a very walkable city.
that usually builds cable car systems for ski
IELTS, where students need
resorts, built the system in La Paz without
Near La Paz is the city of El Alto, 13,615 feet
to realize the information isn’t
destroying3 a lot of homes or green spaces.
(4,150 m) above sea level. Every day, people
given.
It was much easier than building a subway or
take the bus between the two cities. It costs five
train system.
bolivianos (about fifteen cents) and takes about
Thanks to Mi Teleférico, locals now enjoy an
an hour. The buses run frequently, but they are
C Read the article again and
easier commute to school or work. Tourists
crowded. So the daily commute by bus can be
circle the adjectives described
use it to visit difficult-to-reach areas of the
a frustrating experience.
below. Look up any words you
city. Everyone is happy to have this new and
Now there’s another way to travel from El Alto
don’t know. 10 min
convenient way to get around the city. 36
to La Paz. You can catch a ride on Mi Teleférico,
1 cable car system. For only
1The altitude of an object is its height (above sea level).
Students should focus on the
La Paz’s high-altitude
2To float is to move easily on water or through air.
three bolivianos, you can float2 above the city,
adjectives for describing a city
3Destroying means ending something by damaging it;
watching as one neighborhood changes to the
for example, knocking down a house or building.
and its transportation systems.
next. After a peaceful ride in the high-tech car
Make sure they realize they
with eight or nine other passengers, you reach
only have to study the first
La Paz in ten to fifteen minutes.
three paragraphs. After they
have circled the words, they
2. In paragraph 2, words that describe bus rides
A Answer the questions in pairs.
can compare with a partner
3. In paragraph 3, words that describe cable
1. How long is your daily commute to work or
and also help each other with
car rides
school?
meanings where necessary.
2. What kind of transportation system do you
D Why did the city of La Paz build a cable
use (for example, a bus or train)?
car system? Write two or three sentences
3. How many passengers does it carry?
D Why did the city of La Paz
in your notebook. Use at least three
adjectives from C in your answer. Then
build a cable car system?
B Read the article and the Fast Facts box on the
tell a partner.
Write two or three sentences
left. Answer each question about both the bus
in your notebook. Use at least
and cable car systems. If the information isn’t
E Answer the questions in pairs.
given, write DK (don’t know).
three adjectives from C in your
1. How is building a cable car system different
1. How much does it cost?
answer. Then tell a partner.
than building a subway?
bus: five bolivianos; cable car: three bolivianos
It’s much easier.
2. How long does it take from La Paz to
10 min
2. What type of cable car systems does
El Alto?
bus: an hour; cable car: 10–15 minutes
Doppelmayr usually build?
This task combines making
bus: frequently; cable    Cable car systems for skiing
3. How often does it run?
car: every 12 seconds from 5 am to 10 pm    Locals use it to
3. Who uses Mi Teleférico?
use of the adjectives in C
commute to work and school. Tourists use it to
4. How many people ride it each day?
bus: DK; cable car: 250,000 a day    visit difficult-to-reach places in the area.
with the ability to summarize
F Think critically. Compare the buses and
information from the text. There
cable cars, using the information from B.
C Read the article again and circle the adjectives
Which system do you think is better?
is no single correct answer.
described below. Look up any words you
don’t know.
The buses are more
So when some students finish
expensive than . . .
1. In paragraph 1, words that describe La Paz
writing, you could ask them
Because of this,
(the streets, the traffic, getting around)
I think the . . . are better.
to write their sentences on
the board so everyone can
compare their ideas. One
Lesson B | 69
possible answer might be, The
streets in La Paz are steep
and challenging with heavy
traffic. So the city built a high-
Think critically. After reading
F Think critically. Compare the
altitude cable car system so
a text in which information is
buses and cable cars, using
passengers could avoid the
contrasted and opinions are
the information from B. Which
crowded buses and have a
given, students should think
system do you think is better?
© National Geographic Learning
peaceful commute to work.
5–10 min
critically about what they
have read. They should look
Students can work in pairs
for evidence and reasons to
E Answer the questions in pairs.
or groups to compare the
support an opinion.
5–10 min
pros and cons of the two
transportation systems. They
Students have already focused
should draw on the ideas in
their attention on the first half
their answers in B, but also
of the text. The answers to
add ideas based on their own
these three questions are
experience and knowledge.
found in paragraphs 4 and 5 of
the article.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson B | 69

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 75 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 148 ────────

LISTENING

A Where is the neighborhood in the photo? What do you think it’s like? Tell a partner.

B Listen to a podcast about Hongdae and check (✓) the two main ideas. 37
✓
a. Hongdae is very walkable and easy to get to.

b. The neighborhood of Hongdae has a lot of problems.

c. Being a student at Hongik University is great.

✓
d. You can do a lot of different things in Hongdae.

C Infer meaning. Read the sentences and listen again. Circle the correct answer. 37
1. Hongdae has / doesn’t have many places to shop and eat.
ACADEMIC SKILL
2. The area is / isn’t easy to get to by bike.
Listening for words connected
to a topic
3. It’s best to go to Hongdae by car / on public transportation.
In listening tests, the words you hear
4. Hongdae is / isn’t easy to get around on foot.
in the recording are rarely the same
5. There are / aren’t a lot of things to see in Hongdae.
words used in the questions. Read
the questions first; then listen for
6. You need / don’t need to bring your own food to
words connected to the topic of the
Hongdae.
question. For example, in the first item
in C, places to shop and eat means
the stores, restaurants, and clubs
D Identify key details. What information helped you choose your
discussed in the listening.
answers in C? Listen one more time and write the words you
hear. 37
stores    restaurants
1. “. . . a neighborhood that has lots of , , and clubs . . .”
bike lanes
2. “. . . there aren’t many for cyclists, so I’d definitely take the
subway bus
or a .”
can    walkable
3. “Once you arrive, you get around on foot. It’s very .”
great a lot
4. “It’s a place to see of art and street performers.”
try all
5. “You might not know what everything is, but you should of it!”

E What is one of your favorite places in your town or city? What is it like? How do you get
there? Tell a partner.

© National Geographic Learning

A busy street in the Hongdae
neighborhood of Seoul, South Korea
70 | UNIT 5

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 76 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 149 ────────

really saying. This listening skill is often tested
LISTENING
in exams, so this is an opportunity to introduce
students to the idea.
WARM-UP 5 min
Write My neighborhood on the board. Ask students
D Identify key details. What information helped
to describe their neighborhoods and write their
you choose your answers in C? Listen one more
ideas on the board; for example, quiet, noisy, busy,
time and write the words you hear. 37 10 min
clean, nice. Ask, How do people get around your
neighborhood? What transportation is there? Write
Have students read the sentences and complete
the different forms of transportation on the board.
any answers that they think they already know.
This task should recycle lots of language from
Play the audio again. Give students time to
previous pages in this unit and be a useful revision.
complete or confirm their answers. Check
answers with the class. Play the audio again as
necessary.
A Where is the neighborhood in the photo? What do
Identify key details. Remind students that
you think it’s like? Tell a partner. 5 min
to understand details, they need to focus on
Elicit vocabulary to describe the place in the
key words. This exercise will help raise their
photo and write it on the board. Assign students
awareness of how they work out details when
to pairs to discuss the neighborhood. Call on
they listen and identify which key words help
different pairs to share their ideas and add
them.
further vocabulary to the list on the board.

E What is one of your favorite places in your town
CULTURE TIP: Hongdae in Seoul, South Korea
or city? What is it like? How do you get there? Tell
a partner. 10 min
Seoul is the capital city of South Korea. With
a population of around 25 million people, the
On the board you could write My favorite place
city has become famous for its technology and
and either describe your own favorite place to
entertainment. Hongdae is one of the coolest parts
provide a model for this activity, or you could
of Seoul, with artists, musicians, street performers,
elicit ideas from students about what they might
and independent shops and cafes.
talk about; for example, types of buildings,
entertainment, other types of people, getting
around, shops and services, places to eat.
B Listen to a podcast about Hongdae and check (✓)
Then, in pairs, students can talk about each of
the two main ideas. 37 10 min
these things when they describe their favorite
Check that students understand the meaning of
place. If your students all come from the same
“podcast” and ask if they listen to any. If they do,
place, they can draw up a list of reasons for their
ask which podcasts. Then explain that they are
favorite place on their own and then compare
going to listen to a podcast about living in South
their ideas in pairs.
Korea. The presenter is in Hongdae, which is a
neighborhood in Seoul. Ask students to read the
TEACHING TIP: Scaffolding
four sentences and then play the audio. Only
Whenever you give students a speaking task similar
two sentences are correct. If necessary, play the
to the one in E, it is useful to “scaffold” it on the
audio again to check the answers together as a
board first. Scaffolding means creating a framework
class.
for students to follow, so you should brainstorm the
topics they might talk about and / or suggest any
C Infer meaning. Read the sentences and listen
useful words or phrases they might need to use.
again. Circle the correct answer. 37 10 min
This will give them more confidence to start talking
Give students time to read the sentences. Then
in pairs.
have them try to predict a few of the answers
based on what they heard in B. Play the audio
© National Geographic Learning
once for students to circle the answers and then
play it again, stopping after each part of the
audio that provides the answer.

Infer meaning. To infer meaning means to
understand the meaning when the exact word is
not used. This is also explained in the Academic
Skills information about listening for words
connected to a topic. To answer the questions,
students need to listen for key words and then
make a decision about what the speaker is

Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson B | 70a

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 77 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 150 ────────

for homework the day before and check
GRAMMAR
understanding during class.
WARM-UP 10 min
Write on the board, New York is a city. Then ask
C Read the clues and underline the subject relative
students to give you more sentences about New
clauses. Then work in pairs to complete the
York and write them on the board; for example,
crossword puzzle with the words from the box.
New York is in the US. / New York has a population
15 min
of about 8 million people. / New York is famous
Ask the class if anyone likes doing crossword
for the Statue of Liberty. If necessary, students
puzzles like the one shown in this exercise.
could do an internet search of New York and look
If someone says they do, ask them to briefly
for new facts. Alternatively, choose a different city
explain how you fill in a crossword. If no one
that you think your students will know more about;
answers, explain that a crossword has “clues”
for example, the capital city of their own country.
and you have to guess the missing word. Some
Once you have the extra sentences, combine the
of the words go “across” and some go “down.”
first and second sentence using that: New York is a
Next, ask them to read all eight clues and
city that is in the US. Let students study it and say
underline the subject relative clause. Then have
how you combined the two sentences. (Answer:
students guess the clues and fill in the crossword
using that) Elicit two more sentences from the class
puzzle.
using that: for example, New York is a city that has a
population of about 8 million people. / New York is a
D Work in pairs and write five similar clues for
city that is famous for the Statue of Liberty.
different objects, places, or people, using subject
relative clauses. Then join another pair and read
A Compare sentences 1 and 2 with sentence 3.
your clues. Can they guess the answers?
How does the writer join the sentences? 3 min
10 min
Students should read the three sentences about
Assign students to pairs. Ask them to prepare
La Paz and conclude that the writer combines
five clues using subject relative clauses with
the sentences with that. Also draw attention
that. Students can choose any objects, places,
to the fact that the writer avoids using the name
or people. Alternatively, you could advise
of the city (La Paz) twice.
them to choose words from Units 1 to 5 so the
exercise also recycles and reviews language.
Monitor their progress and check some of the
GRAMMAR TIP: Subject relative clause with that
clues as they write them in order to make sure
A subject relative clause adds extra and essential
they are using that correctly. When everyone
information about the subject of a sentence (e.g.,
has five clues, put pairs together and have them
people, places, and objects). Sometimes it is also
take turns reading their clues and guessing the
called a defining relative clause. If your students
words.
have seen relative clauses before, they might know
that you can also use who (for people) and which
TEACHING TIP: Recycling and reviewing
(for things, such as cities). In other words, there are
two ways of saying the same thing:
It’s estimated that a language student needs to see
and use a new word at least five times before they
(who / that) He’s a person who lives in La Paz. / He’s
start to use it actively in their everyday speaking
a person that lives in La Paz.
and writing. So, whenever you can, try to make sure
(which / that) La Paz is a city which is in Bolivia. / La
that you are recycling and reviewing vocabulary
Paz is a city that is in Bolivia.
from previous units in the book. You could do this by
starting or ending your lessons with mini-quizzes,
However, this level of World Link is introducing the
testing vocabulary that has been taught. Or have
grammar point for the first time, so only explain that
students use words from past units for certain
you can also use who or which if a student asks.
© National Geographic Learningexercises, like in D above.
B Read the Unit 5, Lesson B Grammar Reference
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below. 20–30 min
Go over the sentences in the chart and provide
further examples if necessary about your town,
city, or people you know. Have students complete
the exercises on page 194. Alternatively, you
could have students complete the exercises

71a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 78 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 151 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Compare sentences 1 and 2 with sentence 3. How does the writer join the sentences?
The writer joins the sentences with that.
1. La Paz is a city.
2. La Paz is nearly 12,000 feet (3,650 m) above sea level.
3. La Paz is a city that is nearly 12,000 feet (3,650 m) above sea level.

B Read the Unit 5, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

SUBJECT RELATIVE CLAUSES WITH THAT
La Paz has heavy traffic    moves slowly.
Doppelmayr usually builds cable car systems that    don’t affect nature.
Mi Teleférico is a transportation system pays for itself.

C Read the clues and underline the subject relative clauses. Then work in pairs to complete the
crossword puzzle with the words from the box.

chores    cyclists    neighbor    taxi
commute    get    subway    traffic

Across:    Down:

1. It’s all the vehicles that are on the roads.    5. It’s a car that takes you around town quickly.
2. They are people that ride bikes.    6. It’s a regular trip that goes from your home to
3. It’s the person that lives next to you.    work or school.
4. It’s a type of train that travels underground.    7. They are jobs that are around the house.
8. It’s a verb that goes before to or around.
5
T
1 6
T R A    F F I C

X    O

8
M
I    G

E
M
2 7
U    C Y I I S T S
C

H
T

3
N E I G H B O R
© National Geographic Learning
R

E

4
S U B W A Y

D Work in pairs and write five similar clues for different objects,
It is a part of the street
that is for cyclists only.
places, or people, using subject relative clauses. Then join
another pair and read your clues. Can they guess the answers?
Is it a bike lane?

Lesson B | 71

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 79 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 152 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Work in pairs and follow the steps below.
Student A: Close your book. Student B is going to read different prompts and you have to say a word
or phrase for each one; for example, if Student B says verb, you could say a verb like go or get to.
If Student B says length of time, you could say five minutes or ten hours.

Student B: Read the prompts (1–10) to Student A and write down the words they give you. For
example, if you say verb, Student A might say go or get to.

1. Name of a city:    6. Places to go in a city:
2. Adjective:    7. Length of time:
3. Type of transportation:    8. Adjective:
4. Another type of transportation:    9. Verb:
5. Adjective:    10. Opposite of busy or noisy:

B Now repeat the activity in A but switch roles. (Student A reads items 1–10 and Student B provides
the words.)

C Put your partner’s ten new words into this description and read it to your partner.
I live in a city called (1.) . I like living here for three reasons. First, my neighborhood
is (2.) because it’s easy to get around by (3.) . I can go anywhere
in the city, and I don’t need a / an (4.) . It is also a very (5.)
neighborhood that has a lot of (6.) . I can walk to the supermarket or my favorite
cafe in (7.) . There’s also a / an (8.) park that’s a great place to
(9.) with friends. And finally, I live on a busy street that’s noisy during the day, but
at night it’s (10.) ; I like that.

D Which of your partner’s words sound natural in the description? Which words would you change?

E WRITING Using the paragraph in C as an example, write a description of your neighborhood, town, city,
or a place you know well. Include these four items:

• reasons why you like it
USEFUL EXPRESSIONS
I like living here because . . . / for three
• information about transportation, places to go, ways
reasons . . .
to relax
First, . . . / It’s also . . . / There’s also . . . /
• a lot of different adjectives
And finally, . . .
It’s a place / city / neighborhood that has . . .
• at least one subject relative clause
I live on a street / in a neighborhood that . . .
It’s convenient / walkable / quiet / busy.
F Exchange descriptions with a partner and read his or
It’s easier to get around by . . . than by . . .
© National Geographic LearningThere’s a . . . that’s a great place to . . .
her paragraph. Does it include the four items in E?

5B GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Compare ways of getting around
2. Mostly, yes.
Describe my neighborhood
3. Not yet.

72 | UNIT 5

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 80 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 153 ────────

consonants than vowels and to choose commonly
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
used letters (not Q or Z, for example). Then have
students complete the table with words related to
WARM-UP 10 min
the topics in the first column and that start with the
Draw the following table on the board, but fill in only
letter at the top of the column. The table has been
the words in the first column. Have students copy
completed with the text in gray, as an example.
it down. It should have 5 columns, for five letters.
Note that some words may be obvious but others
Next, invite five students to give you a letter from the
may not, so you can ask a student to explain why
alphabet and write each letter at the top of each of
they have written certain words.
the five columns. Encourage them to choose more

T S B W P
Transportation train ship bus walk plane
Places tower store bar Warsaw police station
Adjectives tired slow busy walkable peaceful
Chores throw out shopping buy food washing pick up
Neighborhoods traffic sidewalk bike lane west pedestrian

E WRITING Using the paragraph in C as
Set a time limit so that if students have not filled
an example, write a description of your
every space after three minutes, for example, they
neighborhood, town, city, or a place you know
can turn to a partner and share their words with
well. Include these four items: 15–20 min
each other. Alternatively, you can turn the exercise
into a team competition where small groups
Students should follow the same structure used
compete to fill in their table first.
in the paragraph in C and also make use of the
Useful Expressions in the box. As a class, you
A Work in pairs and follow the steps below. 5 min
could discuss which expressions will be helpful
when writing about each of the four items listed.
Have students work in A / B pairs and make sure
that Student As have their books closed. Student
B calls out the word forms and writes down what
F Exchange descriptions with a partner and read
Student A replies. Explain that Student A shouldn’t
his or her paragraph. Does it include the four
spend too much time thinking about their answer.
items in E? 10 min
Monitor the exercise to make sure students are
Students should read each other’s paragraph
giving correct word forms.
and check that the four items listed in E are in
it. In addition, you could ask them to count how
B Now repeat the activity in A but switch roles.
many Useful Expressions they used from the list.
(Student A reads items 1–10 and Student B
Diagnostics
provides the words.) 5 min
Check students’ competencies as follows:
Have students exchange roles and repeat the
steps in A.
• Are students able to describe their
neighborhood?
• Can they talk about different types of
C Put your partner’s ten new words into this
transportation and ways of getting around?
description and read it to your partner. 15 min
• Are they able to write a paragraph about their
At first, have students work alone and write in
own neighborhood, town, or city?
their partner’s words in 1–10 from A. Then have
them take turns reading the new version of the
text aloud.
5B
GOALS
Review students’ self-assessment in the
© National Geographic Learning
D Which of your partner’s words sound natural in
goals box. Point out to students where
the description? Which words would you change?
they learned these skills in the unit. If they
10 min
rated their ability below Yes, I can, they can
It’s likely that some of the words suggested in
turn back to those pages and review the
A fit the context of the text quite well, but others
exercises.
probably sound crazy. As a class, discuss
Compare ways of getting around:
what words might make sense in this text; for
Vocabulary, page 67, A; Reading, page 69,
example, words such as, 1. Amsterdam
B–C, E–F
2. great 3. bicycle 4. car 5. busy 6. stores
Describe my neighborhood: Listening,
7. a few minutes 8. beautiful 9. relax 10. relaxed
page 70, E; Active English, page 72, E

Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson B | 72a

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 81 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 154 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
statue
government buildings
WARM-UP 5 min
museums
Tell students to imagine a foreign tourist is coming
to visit their town, city, or country. Ask them, What
local history and culture
should the tourist visit? and write their ideas on the
ocean
board. If students are from different countries, they
hold your breath
could work in pairs and tell their partner where to
visit in their country.
make a wish / your wish will come true
scenery
ABOUT THE VIDEO
The video shows a series of interviews in the street
CULTURE TIP: Ceviche
with real people from the city of Lima, Peru. They
One speaker in the video mentions “ceviche.” This
answer questions about the city and recommend
is the national dish of Peru. It is usually raw fish in
things to see, places to visit, and ways to relax. The
the juice of lemon and lime with maize and sweet
video also shows different parts of Lima, including
potatoes and other spices and seasonings. It is
its historic downtown, neighborhoods with good
often eaten as a starter before the main meal.
entertainment, and the beaches.

C In pairs, role-play a conversation between a
A Watch a video about neighborhoods in the capital
tour guide (Student A) and a tourist (Student B)
city of Lima, Peru. Check (✓) what you can do in
in Lima. Watch the video again with the sound
each neighborhood. Check some answers more
off. Student A will describe the different places
than once. 10 min
around Lima that you can see. Student B can
Before watching, let students study the table and
ask questions about the different places. About
also the words in the Word Bank. Then play the
halfway through the video, switch roles. You can
video. Have students check the information in
use words from the video and the phrases below.
the table.
15–20 min

Begin by asking students to read the useful
VIDEO VIEWING TIP: Playing a video in parts
phrases for a tour guide and a tourist. You could
also read each phrase aloud and have students
This video is naturally divided into sections because
repeat it for controlled practice. Make sure
the speakers answer different questions and it also
students realize that they can use their own words
shows speakers talking about different parts of
and questions as well as the phrases on the page.
the city. With this type of video, it can be helpful to
When students are ready, play the video with the
pause the video after each section and review the
sound off so that students can imagine they are
answers in an exercise before watching the next
walking around Lima. Pause the video halfway
section. Breaking a long video down like this makes
through, when the narrator starts talking about
it more manageable for learners and easier to
going from Barranco to El Malecón. Alternatively,
identify the answers when checking them.
let students do one role play with the whole video,
then have them swap roles and play the whole
video again. Monitor the role plays and give
B Read the sentences from the video and guess
feedback afterwards, focusing on their use of
the missing adjectives. Then watch the video
vocabulary for describing places.
again and check your answers. 10 min
Assign students to pairs. Have them work
TEACHING ONLINE
together to guess the missing adjectives in the
Create a tour
sentences. Some adjectives have been taught
You can use this exercise after C for personalized
in the unit, some should already be known by
© National Geographic Learning
extra practice. In pairs, ask students to prepare a
students at this level, and one of them comes from
conversation between a tour guide and a tourist
the Word Bank in A. Talk through the sentences
about the place they come from, or a good place for
as a class and see if everyone has guessed
tourists in their country. Tell them to find a few photos
similar words. Then play the video and ask
of the place online and then write a conversation
students to listen for the words in the sentences.
based on the images and using the phrases in C.
Then, invite each pair to show their photos on the
EXTRA VIDEO VOCABULARY
screen and perform their conversation. Or, as a
downtown
homework task, students could record a slide show
of their photos with their conversation and share the
historic district
videos with the class afterwards.
from the 16th, 18th, 19th century

73a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 5, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 82 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 155 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
GLOBAL VOICES
A Watch a video about neighborhoods in the capital city of Lima, Peru. Check (✓) what you can do in
each neighborhood. Check some answers more than once.

Downtown Lima Barranco Miraflores
WORD BANK
A magical place is
1. Meet friends in Plaza San Martín.
✓
beautiful and very
2. Visit the Bridge of Sighs.
✓
different from normal
3. Visit historic buildings and museums.
✓    places.
A bohemian
4. See government buildings.
✓
neighborhood looks
5. See street art.
✓
artistic and unique.
6. Eat out.
✓    ✓    ✓

B Read the sentences from the video and guess the missing adjectives. Then watch the video again
and check your answers.
istoric
1. “You should visit Lima downtown because it’s a h district here.”
agical
2. “You should go to Lima downtown because it’s a m place.”
alkable
3. “Downtown Lima is a beautiful and w area that is very important . . .”
amous
4. “You can see the statue of José de San Martín and visit the f Hotel Bolívar.”
mportant
5. “There are a number of i government buildings . . .”
elicious
6. “You can go to have some drinks or food. They have d food.”
ovely
7. “In the evening . . . you will see a l sunset.”
opular
8. “If you’re planning to visit a p restaurant, remember to make a reservation!”
ell nown
9. “The beaches of Punta Hermosa . . . are w k for surfing.”
onderful
10. “Lima is a city with so many w neighborhoods to explore.”

C In pairs, role-play a conversation between a tour guide (Student A) and a tourist (Student B) in
Lima. Watch the video again with the sound off. Student A will describe the different places around
Lima that you can see. Student B can ask questions about the different places. About halfway
through the video, switch roles. You can use words from the video and the phrases below.

Tourist:
Tour guide:
What are we looking at now?
Welcome to this tour of Lima!
What’s this neighborhood famous for?
At the moment, we’re standing in . . .
Is that an important building?
This is a / an . . . neighborhood . . .
Is this area very walkable / popular?
Look at the . . .
What is there to do here?
This area is famous / popular for its . . .
Are there any good restaurants near here?
You can eat / see / visit . . .
© National Geographic Learning
El Malecón, a walkway that goes through the
Barranco and Miraflores neighborhoods
of Lima, has beautiful views
of the ocean.

Lesson B | 73

WLTB_L2_U05_ptg01.indd 83 30/04/21 1:17 PM

──────── Page 156 ────────

UNIT 6

ABOUT THE PHOTO
This photo shows the New York
offices of Barbarian, which is a
digital marketing company. The
design of their offices won an
award. The idea was that people
don’t work in separate rooms or at
separate desks anymore. Instead,
the offices are open plan on one
floor, with managers and workers
sitting next to each other. The staff
all work at one enormous, long
table in a large room with smaller,
quieter spaces for meetings.

INTRODUCE THE THEME
In this unit, students will explore
applying for college, as well as
future study and work plans.

In Lesson A, students learn about
the process of applying to a school
in the US. They also practice
the listening strategy of listening
for details and they learn how to
respond to bad news and offer
help. Finally, they learn how to talk
about future plans and decisions.

In Lesson B, students learn to talk
about plans for after graduation.
They read about the essential
questions they need to ask in
life, practicing the academic
skill of retelling what they have
read. They also learn to make
predictions with going to and will
before writing a personal profile.
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
/ Discuss future plans and decisions    / Describe educational and work goals
/ Respond to bad news and offer help    / Make predictions about the future
WARM-UP 5 min
Write the word Goals on the board
and ask students to suggest what
type of goals people have in their
two questions as a class and say
Unlike many videos in this book,
life. Write their ideas on the board.
if they would like to work in this
which have a narrator or speaker,
You could suggest a few to get
type of workplace.
this video has only words on the
students started, such as work
screen, so students need to read
goals, career goals, education
quickly.
goals, life goals, money goals, or
WARM-UP VIDEO
© National Geographic Learning
the goal of owning a certain type
About the video
Warm-Up 5 min
of car or home.
This video is made by American
Ask students about education in
Student Assistance. ASA is a
Look at the photo. Answer the
their own country or countries.
nonprofit organization that helps
questions. 5 min
Ask, At what age can you leave
students in the US access a
To continue from the Warm-Up,
school? What are your choices
college education and finance
explain that some people have
when you leave? Write a few
for higher education. The video
the goal of working in a certain
of their ideas on the board;
is one of many that ASA has
type of workplace. Ask students
for example, get a job, get an
produced to help teenagers make
to open their books and look at
apprenticeship, go to college.
decisions about their future goals.
the photo. They can answer the

74 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 6

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 74 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 157 ────────

6
A What will you do (or did you
do) after leaving school? Tell a
partner. 5 min
Have students tell a partner,
but note that some students
GOALS
(especially younger students)
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
might not feel comfortable
QUESTIONS.
talking about their future goals.
1. How would you describe this workplace?
Only invite answers afterward
2. Would you like to work in a place like this?
from students who seem happy
Why or why not?
and confident about saying
WARM-UP VIDEO
what they will do after leaving
school. As students discuss
A What will you do (or did you do) after leaving
this question, you can monitor
school? Tell a partner.
their conversations and take
note of what students say about
B You are going to watch a video showing
different choices after high school in the US.
their future goals; you might
Match the goals to the three types of schools.
be able to help advise them,
b
1. Improve your school grades.
and what they answer will tell
c
2. Learn new skills.
you about how they might use
a
3. Get a bachelor’s degree.
English in the future.
a. four-year college (or university)
b. two-year community college
B You are going to watch a video
c. technical or trade schools
showing different choices after
C Watch the video again and answer the
high school in the US. Match
It prepares you for many careers, opens your
questions.
the goals to the three types of
mind, helps you earn more money and learn
1. What are three reasons for getting a
schools. 5 min
about many topics, and allows
bachelor’s degree?
you to go to graduate school.
Give students time to read
2. What can a two-year college give you
Save money and improve your
some time to do?
the goals and the three types
grades
3. When can you use the skills you learn at a
of schools. Briefly ask if they
As soon as you graduate
technical or trade school?
have similar schools to those
4. What do you need to know for whatever
listed in a–c in their country.
school you choose? Why?
The application process because they vary
Don’t go into too much detail
from school to school.
People work together in
at this stage, as the video is
D Discuss the questions in groups.
the offices of Barbarian,
self-explanatory about what
1. What do you call “high school” in your
an advertising company in
country? When do students usually finish?
you can do at each type of
New York City, US.
2. What types of schools can you choose
school. Play the video and
from afterward?
have students match.
3. What are the differences between the
choices?

C Watch the video again and
answer the questions. 5 min
Play the video again. Have
students write the answers
kind of school and college
students communicate and
based on what they read on
system. That way, they can
explain their information, rather
the screen. You could play the
help each other with the
than dealing with errors and
video a third time, but pause
language they need for talking
accuracy at this stage.
it at each relevant section to
about it. However, if your
© National Geographic Learning
check answers to the four
students come from different
questions.
countries and education
systems, it’s an opportunity
for students to tell the others
D Discuss the questions in
about where they come from
groups. 10–15 min
and what the choices are. At
Ideally, students will work
the end, take answers from
in groups made up of other
different groups and write the
students from the same
different choices on the board.
country who have the same
Focus mostly on helping

Teacher’s Book UNIT 6 | 75

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 75 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 158 ────────

6A STARTING OUT

VOCABULARY

A Read the information about applying to colleges in the US.
WORD BANK
Complete the words using the correct word form (verb or
verb noun
noun) from the Word Bank.
application
apply (to)
an
If you (1.) pl to go to college after high
arrangement
arrange
school, there are a lot of great choices out there. If you
choice
choose
consideration
consider (doing)
do your research well, you’ll be fine! Make the right
oice
decision
decide (to do)
(2.) ch by following these instructions:
intention
intend (to do)
nsider
• Look at different college websites. (3.) Co
plan
plan (to do)
questions like: Where is the school located? How big are
recommendation
recommend
the classes?
(doing something)
tend
• If you (4.) in to visit a school,
range
(5.) ar a time to watch some classes and
meet some of the students. Find out what they think.
commendation
• Ask your high school teachers to write letters of (6.) re for you.
plication
• Decide which schools to apply to and send your (7.) ap s in on time.
cision
• Most schools will give you their (8.) de within a few months.
Good luck!

B Review the steps in A with a partner. How is applying to college different in your country?
How is it similar?

C Read three messages from an online forum about college. What does each person hope to do?
What advice would you give each person? Discuss in small groups.

Difficult College Decisions

Kento
My parents want me to apply to Tokyo University. It’s one of the best, but I’m not sure I
want to go to college right now. I’d like to travel.

Margarita
All my friends intend to go to college, but I hope to become a chef. So I need to
decide between applying to a community college and learning on the job.

© National Geographic Learning
Paulo
I didn’t get the grades I need for my top-choice school. I could consider a different
college, or I could take my exams again.

He intends to . . . She should
He doesn’t have    consider . . . There are other
to apply to . . .    choices . . .

Kento hopes to travel. Margarita hopes to become a chef. Paulo hopes to go to college.

76 | UNIT 6

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 76 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 159 ────────

write notes on what they think each person
6A STARTING OUT
should do. After a few minutes, put students in
groups. Have them compare their ideas on what
VOCABULARY
advice each person needs. If group members
disagree on the best advice, encourage them
WARM-UP 5 min
to try to reach an agreement. Afterwards, invite
Ask students, In your country, who goes to college?
groups to sum up their advice for each of the
Is it hard to get into college? How much does it cost?
people.

EXTRA! Write about your hopes
A Read the information about applying to colleges
in the US. Complete the words using the correct
Tell each student to write a similar message for an
word form (verb or noun) from the Word Bank.
online forum about college and their future hopes.
10 min
They can either write about their own real hopes
or they can create a new character and make up
Say the vocabulary items in the Word Bank and
the information. The messages should be short
have students repeat them. Point out that they
(about two sentences). After they have written
are verbs with their noun forms. Tell students
the message, they should swap it with a partner,
they will work out the meanings when they do the
who should read it and write a reply, giving them
exercise. Have students read through the steps
advice. Remind them to try to use the vocabulary
for applying to college and complete the words
in the Word Bank. As students write, monitor their
using the Word Bank. Remind them to look at
progress and help out with any mistakes, especially
the complete sentence and decide whether
if they are using the verbs and nouns in the Word
they need the verb or the noun. Have students
Bank incorrectly. 10 min
compare their answers with a partner’s, then
check answers with the class.

TEACHING TIP: Monolingual dictionaries
CULTURE TIP: Letters of recommendation
At this level, students can make good use of an
When applying for a job or to a study program in the
intermediate-level monolingual dictionary, which
US, and many other countries, applicants are often
lets them work entirely in English. When looking up
required to submit letters of recommendation. This
a word, remind students to look up the unknown
letter is usually from a former employer or teacher,
words in the exact forms needed—for example,
or someone who knows the applicant professionally.
apply to, not just apply. If the dictionary does not
In it, the writer explains how he or she knows the
have apply to, help students choose the correct
applicant, for how long he or she has known him or
definition of apply (there will be at least two) and
her, and why he or she is a good candidate for the
then figure out what apply to means in the context.
job or study program.

LANGUAGE TIP: College, university, and school
B Review the steps in A with a partner. How is
In the United States, people say going to college,
applying to college different in your country? How
not going to university. In the United States,
is it similar? 10 min
college follows high school, and college can refer
Assign students to pairs and have them go over
to a community college (two years, earning an
the steps again and discuss the similarities
associate’s degree), a college that stands on its
and differences with their countries. Compare
own (four years, earning a bachelor’s degree), or
answers as a class. If you have students from
a university. It is also acceptable to ask, Where do
several different countries, and it is appropriate,
you go to school? when someone is asking what
have them help you do a chart on the board with
college or university you attend. In British English,
the steps for each country.
college and university are distinctly different and
school is only for younger people.
© National Geographic Learning
C Read three messages from an online forum
about college. What does each person hope to
TEACHING OPTION: Support / challenge
do? What advice would you give each person?
10 min
Discuss in small groups. 10 min
Challenge students to do more with the vocabulary
Initially, ask students to work alone and read
and play with the parts of speech. In groups of
each message. Then, as a class, check that
three or four, assign students to write a sentence
everyone understands what each person hopes
with each verb in the Word Bank. Then students
to do. (Answer: Kento hopes to travel, Margarita
can write sentences with the nouns. They can then
hopes to become a chef, and Paulo hopes to
add these words and sentences to their vocabulary
go to a certain school.) However, each person
notebook.
also has to consider other issues. Have students

Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson A | 76a

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 77 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 160 ────────

the type of words they need to listen out for.
LISTENING
For example, for item 3, ask them to suggest the
names of types of fuel that might be mentioned
WARM-UP 5–10 min
in the podcast. Then play the audio again.
With books closed, ask students, Do you think
Check the answers afterwards as a class.
your school or place of work is “green” or
environmentally friendly? For example, does it have
recycling bins? Are there notices about saving
D Summarizing. In pairs, compare Green School
energy? What else can a “green” school or place
Bali to the school you currently attend or a school
of work do? Write down anything that students
you went to in the past. Tell your partner about
say their school or place of work does to help the
any similarities and any differences. 10 min
environment, or things that it could do.
To guide students in their answers to this exercise,
draw the following table on the board and ask
them to copy it in their notebooks. Then, in pairs,
A You’re going to hear a podcast about an unusual
ask them to start by filling in the first column about
school. How do you think Green School Bali is
the Green School. They can take all their answers
special? Look at the photo and the profile below
from the information they wrote down in B and
and guess. 5–10 min
C. Then ask students to fill in the information for
Let students study the photo and the incomplete
their own school. In the row Anything else, they
profile. Then ask for suggestions about what type
can add any other interesting information about
of school it is. For their interest, tell them that the
the Green School from the podcast and anything
Green School is a real school in Bali and they will
interesting about their own school. Finally,
find more information about it on the internet.
students should get into pairs and tell each other
about the similarities and differences in the table.
TEACHING TIP: Authenticity and motivation
The Green    Your
When we talk about authenticity in the English
School    school
language classroom, we often think it refers to an
Number of students
authentic text. At lower levels, it can be hard to use
Ages
100% authentic texts because the language level
is too high. However, the text can be authentic in
Location
terms of the information it presents. For example,
Type of classrooms
the information about the Green School on this
Subjects
page is authentic, and this makes it much more
motivating for students to read about and listen to
Fuel
than if it were about a fictional school.
Food
Mission
Anything else?
B Listen for details. Listen to the podcast and
complete the profile. 38 10–15 min
Summarizing. Having students summarize what
Before listening, students can work in pairs
they heard is a good way for them to check
and try to predict what words are missing from
their understanding. Summarizing also involves
the blanks. Also advise students to think about
students using their own background knowledge
what type of words are missing in each blank.
of a topic and their knowledge of English to help
For example, item 1 is probably a number, item
them explain what they understood. By using
2 will be what comes after primary and middle
the table in D, students formally gather all the
school, and so on. Then play the podcast once
key information together and contrast it with their
or twice while students complete the profile.
own experience of school. In this way, they are
Check answers with the class and write them on
developing one way of summarizing information
the board.
into a table, which will help them with note-taking
© National Geographic Learningkey information when listening in the future.
Listen for details. Remind students that when
listening for details they need to focus on key
words that will help them. They can identify these
key words and phrases in the sentences before
they listen.

C Listen again and answer the questions. 38
10–15 min

Talk through the questions as a class and invite
students to try to answer the questions from
memory of the first listening. You can also elicit

77a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 78 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 161 ────────

LISTENING

A You’re going to hear a podcast about an unusual school. How do you think Green School Bali is
special? Look at the photo and the profile below and guess.

B Listen for details. Listen to the podcast and complete the profile. 38

Green School Bali
WORD BANK
environmental relating to
400
The students: The school has over (1.) students
the natural world
of all ages including early years (ages 3–6), primary (ages 7–11),
mission a goal or a task
high
middle (ages 11–14), and (2.) school (ages 14–18).
that a person or group of
people work on
island
Location: On the (3.) of Bali, in Indonesia
nature
Classrooms: Made from bamboo and close to (4.)

Subjects and lessons: These include mathematics, reading,
studies
science, and “green (5.) .”

C Listen again and answer the questions. 38
Parents
1. What type of person is the podcast for?
Which school to send their children to
2. What plans and decisions are these people making?
Used cooking oil
3. What kind of fuel does the school bus use at Green School Bali?
No.
4. Do the lessons always take place inside a classroom?
It comes from the school garden.
5. Where does the food come from for school lunches?
New ways to reuse plastic
6. What is Wayan’s Greenstone project going to be about?
An environmental mission
7. What type of mission does the school have?

D In pairs, compare Green School Bali to the school you currently attend or a school you went to in
the past. Tell your partner about any similarities and any differences.

High school students at Green
School Bali study in one of
the bamboo classrooms.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson A | 77

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 79 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 162 ────────

SPEAKING

A Listen to the conversation and answer the
Kai: I’m sure you’ll get in.
questions with a partner. 39
Li: Thanks. If not, I’ll take a gap year and
Kai: Hey, Li. How’s it going with the
apply again next year.
grad school applications?
Kai: Well, good luck. And if you want to talk,
Li: Not so great. I didn’t get into Tsinghua
just call me.
University.
Li: Thanks, Kai. I really appreciate it.
Kai: Oh, no! I’m sorry to hear that.
1. Li is unhappy about something. What?
Li’s unhappy because she didn’t get into her first choice for grad school.
Li: Yeah, and it was my first choice.
2. How does Kai respond to Li’s bad news?
Kai: You must be disappointed. What are
Underline Kai’s responses.
you going to do instead?
3. Do you think Kai is a good friend? Why or
Li: Well, I applied to one other school, but
why not?
I’m waiting to hear back from them.

Tsinghua University, located in Beijing, China,
is one of the top universities in the country.

B Practice the conversation with a partner.
SPEAKING STRATEGY 40

C Do the role play below with a partner.
Responding to bad news Offering to help
Practice responding to bad news and
(I’m) sorry to hear that.    If you want to talk, (just)
offering to help. Use the Speaking Strategy
© National Geographic LearningThat’s too bad. call me.
and the conversation in A to help you.
How disappointing.    If there’s anything I can do,
Student A: You just received an exam
You must be disappointed. (just) let me know.
back. You didn’t fail the test, but your
grade is much lower than expected.

Student B: Respond to Student A’s news
and offer to help.

D Switch roles and do the role play again.

78 | UNIT 6

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 80 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 163 ────────

students to practice without looking at their
SPEAKING
books too much so that they speak more
naturally. Point out that although disappointing /
WARM-UP 5–10 min
disappointed is used as an example in the chart,
With books closed, say, A disappointment is when
other adjectives can be used when responding
something that you want to happen doesn’t happen.
to bad news. It depends on the context; for
Write the word disappointment on the board.
example, you could also teach:
Suggest moments in life when we are disappointed,
such as failing a test or exam, not getting a job, or
How sad!
not winning a competition. You could also describe
That’s unfortunate.
a time you had a disappointment. Ask, Have you
You must be frustrated.
ever had a disappointment? What was it? Let
students volunteer to answer.
That is frustrating.

D Switch roles and do the role play again. 10 min
TEACHING TIP: Word forms
Assign students to new pairs. Tell them to do the
Whenever you introduce a new word, show its
role play again without looking at their books.
different forms and use it in the context of a
After they have practiced, call on several pairs to
meaningful sentence. For example:
perform the role play for the class.
Failing my driving test was a big disappointment.
(noun)
TEACHING TIP: Peer feedback
I was so disappointed about failing my test. (adjective)
It’s useful for students to develop the skill of giving
How disappointing about your test! (adjective)
and receiving feedback from their peers. This
needs to be handled sensitively, and students need
Also make sure students recognize where the
to be clear on what kind of feedback is appropriate.
stressed syllable is in a multi-syllable word like
In order to use peer feedback with role plays, you
disappointment. (It’s the third syllable.)
need to have two students perform and two other
students listen and give feedback. As a starting
point, the listening students could focus on how the
A Listen to the conversation and answer the
speaking students use the expressions. As they
questions with a partner. 39 10–15 min
listen, they could check (✓) an expression from the
With books closed, write the three questions
Speaking Strategy list when they hear it being used.
on the board, but leave out Underline Kai’s
At the end, they could say how many expressions
responses. Play the audio once, and have
they heard. Then the pairs should exchange roles.
students compare answers with a partner’s. With
As students become used to giving their peers
books open, show students the rest of item 2.
feedback, you can encourage them to start giving
Play the audio again while students read along,
more comments on what they liked about the role
verify the answers they’ve already checked, and
play and then what suggestions they have for
underline the missing answer to item 2. Ask them
improvements. Note that when you ask students to
what get into means. (In this context, it means
give peer feedback, they will also ask for teacher
“be accepted by a university or college.”) They
feedback, so follow up any peer feedback task with
should be able to infer it from the context.
your own comments.

B Practice the conversation with a partner. 10 min
TEACHING OPTION 10 min
Play the audio, pausing after each line for students
Call on students to help list the expressions from
to repeat it. Next, students can practice the
the Speaking Strategy on the board. Ask students
conversation in pairs, and then switch roles.
to recall the disappointments they talked about
in the Warm-Up for this page. List them on the
C Do the role play below with a partner. Practice
© National Geographic Learning
board, too. With books closed, have pairs choose a
responding to bad news and offering to help. Use
disappointment from the list, create a conversation
the Speaking Strategy and the conversation in A
(using one of the expressions), and practice it. Call
to help you. 10–15 min
on volunteers to perform their conversations for the
Go over the Speaking Strategy with the class.
class. Another alternative (which you could also
Have students repeat the sentences, focusing
assign for homework) is for students to write out a
on using appropriate intonation to respond
conversation between two people responding to
to bad news. Then have students read the
bad news and offering help.
situation and explain any vocabulary. Assign
students to A-B pairs to create the role play.
Monitor and provide help as necessary. Remind

Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson A | 78a

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 81 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 164 ────────

B Circle the best answer to complete each
GRAMMAR
conversation. 5–10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Have students choose their answers. Then ask
them to compare their answers with a partner’s.
Ask students, What are you going to do after class
You can also check the answers together by
today? This evening? Write their ideas on the board.
playing Track 41 in the next exercise.
At this point, don’t worry about students answering
with be going to, but keep repeating the structure
yourself by asking students the questions.
C PRONUNCIATION: Reduced forms of going to
and will Listen and check your answers in
B. Notice how the speaker pronounces going to
GRAMMAR TIP: Be going to and will
and will in the sentences. Then, in pairs, practice
Sometimes be going to and will are taught as
reading the conversations in B aloud. 41
interchangeable to discuss the future. They are
10 min
often also used interchangeably by native speakers.
Speakers often reduce both be going to and
However, be going to is used to state an alreadywill in everyday speech. Play the audio through
made plan—We’re going to the beach this weekend
once without stopping, and then play it again
(We already agreed that this is the plan for this
but pause after each conversation in B. Have
weekend.)— while will is used to make an offer—I’ll
students repeat speaker B’s responses both
take you to the beach on Saturday (If you would like
chorally and individually. After playing the audio,
to go to the beach, I am offering to drive you there.).
put students in pairs and have them practice the
There is only a slight difference between I’m going
short conversations using reduced forms. They
to buy chocolates for her party (It’s been agreed
should then swap roles so that both students in
that I will bring chocolates. That is the plan.) and
the pair have the opportunity to play speaker B.
I’ll buy chocolates for her party (I’m offering to help
you by getting the chocolates so you don’t have to
D Imagine you can go to any school in the world.
do it.). The ultimate action is the same, so they are
Choose a school and complete the sentences.
often taught as interchangeable.
10 min

Have students work individually to complete
TEACHING TIP: Concept-check questions
the sentences. Monitor and help with ideas
and vocabulary as necessary. Afterwards, tell
One way to make a grammar presentation more
students to practice saying the six sentences
interactive and to check that students genuinely
with the reduced form of be going to.
understand is to ask concept-check questions. For
example, if you were comparing the use of be going
to and will for plans and decisions, you might write
E Ask questions to get a partner’s answers to D.
two sentences like these on the board and then ask
On a piece of paper, write six questions with be
the questions that follow:
going to or will and the question words below.
Take turns asking and answering the questions.
1. We’re going to the beach this weekend.
15 min
2. I’ll take you to the beach on Saturday.
Do the first question together and write it on the
board. Have students complete the remaining
Has the speaker already planned to do this?
questions individually. Note that students can
(Answer: Yes for sentence 1, No for sentence 2)
write them using be going to or will, depending
Did the speaker decide this before speaking or at
on whether they think it’s a plan or a sudden
the time of speaking? (Answer: Before speaking in
decision. Check students’ questions and
sentence 1, at the time of speaking in sentence 2)
expect some differences; for example, if one
student writes, How many schools are you
going to apply to? and another student writes,
A Read the Unit 6, Lesson A Grammar Reference
How many schools will you apply to? point out
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
© National Geographic Learning
that both are correct but that the two students
the exercises below. 20–30 min
view the meaning slightly differently. Next,
Have students complete the exercises on
assign students to pairs to ask and answer
page 195. The grammar chart on page 195
their questions. Monitor and provide help as
includes further examples and usage
necessary. Finally, call on several students to
explanations, expanding on the information
tell the class one of their partner’s plans and
in the chart on page 79. Alternatively, you
decisions.
could have students complete the exercises
for homework the day before and check
understanding during class.

79a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 82 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 165 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 6, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

PLANS AND DECISIONS WITH BE GOING TO AND WILL
I’m going to study science in college.
Plans
I’m not going to apply to school next year.
A: Oh, no, I forgot my wallet!
B: Don’t worry! I’ll pay for lunch.
Decisions
A: We’re having a surprise party for Mark.
B: OK, I won’t say anything to him!
Question forms with be going to
Are you going to study    Yes, I am. / Maybe.
Yes / No questions
science?    No, I’m not.
What are you going to do    I’m going to take a gap
Wh- questions
after graduation?    year.

B Circle the best answer to complete each conversation.
1. A: What are your plans for tonight?
B: I’ll / I’m going to study.

2. A: We need your application by 5:00 pm today.
B: Sorry, I didn’t know that! I’ll / I’m going to do it right now.

3. A: When’s your interview tomorrow?
B: It’ll / It’s going to start at 9:00 am.

4. A: Oh, no! I just spilled water all over the floor.
B: Don’t worry! I’ll / I’m going to get some towels.

5. A: What are your plans for this afternoon?
B: I’ll / I’m going to do some homework.

6. A: Who’s writing your letter of recommendation?
B: Hmm, I’m not sure . . . Oh, I know! I’ll / I’m going to ask Mr. Stuart, my math teacher.

C PRONUNCIATION: Reduced forms of going to and will Listen and check your answers in B.
Notice how the speaker pronounces going to and will in the sentences. Then, in pairs, practice
reading the conversations in B aloud. 41

D Imagine you can go to any school in the world. Choose a school and complete the sentences.
5. I’m going to graduate in
1. I’m going to apply to school(s).
(number)    years.    (number)
2. I’m going to go to .
© National Geographic Learning(name of school)
6. After graduation, I’m going to become
3. I’m going to live at / in .
(home / a dorm room / an apartment)    .
(a / an + job)
4. I’m going to study .
(name of major)

E Ask questions to get a partner’s answers to D. On a piece of paper, write six questions with be going
to or will and the question words below. Take turns asking and answering the questions.

1. How many . . .? 3. Where . . .? 5. When . . .?
2. Where . . .? 4. What . . .? 6. What . . .?

Lesson A | 79

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 83 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 166 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Read the questions on the left side of the chart. In the Me column, check (✓) the activities you’re
planning to do in the future. Then add your own question at the bottom.

Classmate’s
Are you going to . . . Me Wh- Question Answer
name

graduate from high school or    When . . .?
college soon?

take a trip somewhere this    Where…?
summer?

go out this weekend? Who . . .?

study after class today? What . . .?

take a test in English (like the    Which . . .?
TOEFL or IELTS) soon?

keep studying English after    Where . . .?
this class?

?

B Interview your classmates. For each question, find a different person who answers Yes. Write the
classmate’s name in the chart above. Then ask a Wh- question to get more details and write down
their response.

Are you going to take a trip
somewhere this summer?
Yes, I am.

Where are you going to go?

To the beach.

C Look at the answers you got above. Which one was the most interesting? Tell the class.

D Work in pairs and look at your plans again in A. Imagine you receive some bad news, so you aren’t
going to do one of these things. Complete the steps below.

1. Tell your partner the bad news.
2. Your partner responds and offers help.
3. Make a decision about what you’ll do next. Then switch roles and repeat the steps.

© National Geographic Learning
6A GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Discuss future plans and decisions
2. Mostly, yes.
Respond to bad news and offer help
3. Not yet.

80 | UNIT 6

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 84 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 167 ────────

aren’t going to do one of these things. Complete
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
the steps below. 20 min
WARM-UP 5 min
To show students what type of conversation
they are aiming for, you could write this example
Review the grammar from the previous page by
conversation on the board and show how they
asking students this question with be going to
should choose an item from the chart and then
(or adapt it for your context if necessary): Are you
recycle all the language from Lesson A in a
going to study English this summer? Elicit different
conversation.
answers such as, Yes, I am. / Maybe. / No, I’m not.
Then ask another question such as, What are you
A: I feel sick, so I’m not going out this weekend.
going to do after graduation? Elicit answers such as,
B: I’m sorry to hear that. If there’s anything I can
I’m going to go traveling. As you ask the questions
do, let me know.
and students give you answers, write them on the
board to remind everyone of the be going to form.
A: Thanks, but I’m going to take some medicine
and go back to bed.
A Read the questions on the left side of the chart.
B: Good idea! I’ll call tomorrow and see how
In the Me column, check (✓) the activities you’re
you are.
planning to do in the future. Then add your own
If necessary, the pairs could write out their
question at the bottom. 5 min
conversations first and then practice them.
Hold up your book and point to the first two
columns as you explain what students have to
EXTRA! What are you going to do? 10 min
do. Elicit one or two examples of possible extra
questions for the first column in the chart.
For more practice and fun with the language of
making plans and decisions, prepare small slips of
paper, one for each student, with a different amount
B Interview your classmates. For each question,
of money written on each one, from very small—for
find a different person who answers Yes. Write the
example $1—to very large—for example, $1 million.
classmate’s name in the chart above. Then ask a
Assign students to groups of five or six. Appoint a
Wh- question to get more details and write down
reporter for each group. Tell students they have all
their response. 10–15 min
won money in a contest, and now they have to decide
As you explain, hold up the book and point to the
what to do with it. Let each student pick a slip of paper
remaining three columns. Also talk through the
from a bag or box. Give them a little time to think
example questions and answers on the page so
before telling their group what they are going to do.
students understand the form of their questioning.
Let the group vote on which two answers they want to
Then, have students in the class stand up, as they
share with the whole class. The reporter tells the class.
will need to move around. Students should take
turns asking each other a question and filling in
Diagnostics
the chart. Then they should move to a new partner
Check students’ competencies as follows:
and repeat until the whole chart is completed.
• Are students able to talk about future plans and
decisions?
LARGE CLASS OPTION AND
• Are students able to respond to bad news and
TEACHING ONLINE
offer help?
In large classes, it may be difficult for students to
• Are students using the vocabulary of the unit
move around the room, so put students in groups
appropriately?
of eight before they start exercise B. Have them
work in pairs but switch partners within the group.
• Can students produce the reduced forms?
Alternatively, if students really cannot move around
at all, they can work in pairs only and interview each
© National Geographic Learning6A
other with all the questions in the chart. This is also
GOALS
true for online teaching, where you can put each
Review student’s self-assessment in the goals
pair into a breakout room to interview each other.
box. Point out to students where they learned
these skills in the unit. If they rated their ability
below Yes, I can, they can turn back to those
C Look at the answers you got above. Which one was
pages and review the exercises.
the most interesting? Tell the class. 10–15 min
Discuss future plans and decisions:
Have students study their completed charts and
Vocabulary, page 76, A–C; Grammar,
report back to the class on the most interesting
page 79, D–E; Active English, page 80, A–D
answers they wrote down.
Respond to bad news and offer help:
Speaking, page 78, A–D; Active English,
D Work in pairs and look at your plans again in A.
page 80, D
Imagine you receive some bad news, so you

Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson A | 80a

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 85 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 168 ────────

I want to go back to school at some point (in my
6B AFTER GRADUATION
life). (indefinite, vague)

In a few days / weeks / months is another way of
VOCABULARY
being vague about future time. Compare:
WARM-UP 5 min
I’ll call you on Tuesday.
Have students look at the photo at the bottom of
I’ll call you in a few days. (It might be Tuesday or
the page and ask the class these questions: What
Wednesday, or even the weekend.)
was Fousseyni’s goal? What did he open? What
are your goals for the future? For the final question
Some indefinite future time expressions imply a
about students’ future goals, write some of their
certain time:
goals on the board. Then point out the future time
1. Soon means that something is going to happen
expressions in the Word Bank and provide more
quickly (maybe tomorrow or this week, or next
examples, such as:
week).
after graduation / school / work
2. In the near future means that something will
in a month / in two years (meaning: one month from
happen later than soon, but in the not-too-distant
now; two years from now)
future (maybe a week, two weeks, or a month
from now).
next year / month / week
3. Someday and eventually are similar. They
this summer, fall, weekend, month
suggest that something will happen at some time
in the future—typically the more distant future; for
Have students repeat what their goals are for the
example, Eventually / Someday I’d like to be my
future and add a future time expression; for example,
own boss (in the more distant future).
they might say, I want to open my own restaurant at
some point. / I’m going to take a gap year next year.
Explain that in this lesson they will learn vocabulary
B Look at the blue expressions in A. Answer the
for talking about their goals and also expressions
questions. Then tell a partner. 10 min
for talking about future time.
Have students read through the questions on
their own. Then have them answer using the
A The people below are college seniors or recent
information in A. Assign students to pairs to share
graduates. Take turns reading their plans aloud
their answers. If they don’t agree, they should go
with a partner. 10 min
back to the sentences in A and try to decide the
correct answer. Check answers with the class.
Have students read the sentences aloud with
their partner and try to guess the meaning of the
words and expressions in blue that they don’t
C When do the people in A want to do these
know. Remind them that they can often work out
things? Do they give a definite future time or not?
the meaning from the context. Say the words
Tell a partner. 10–15 min
and expressions in blue in the sentences and
Have students identify the time expressions in
have students repeat (note that there are two
the sentences in A. Then have them decide if
pronunciations of resume: /rɛzəmeɪ/ or /rɛzʊmeɪ/).
they refer to a definite or indefinite time in the
Resume can be spelled as résumé, with accents,
future. Check answers with the class.
as well. Both ways are correct. Compare the
indefinite and definite future time expressions
and help students notice the difference.
D Look again at the blue expressions in A. Do you
want to do any of these things? If so, when? Use
the future time expressions to tell a partner.
LANGUAGE TIP: Definite and indefinite future time
10–15 min
We don’t always know exactly when we’re going
Go over the directions with the class and give
to do something. Indefinite future time expressions
© National Geographic Learning
students a few minutes to think about their future
help us talk in a general (indefinite or vague) way
plans and when they plan to do them. Remind
about the future.
students that they can ask follow-up questions
At some point means “at some time” in the future—it
to find out more about their partner’s plans.
might be the near future or the more distant future;
Assign students to pairs to talk about their future
we don’t specify the exact time. Compare:
plans. Monitor and help as necessary. Call on
students to share one of their partner’s plans
I’ll call you at noon tomorrow. (definite)
with the class. Ask, When? as necessary so
I’ll call you at some point tomorrow. (indefinite, vague)
students use the time expressions. Ask, Is that at
a definite or indefinite time in the future? to check
I want to go back to school in the spring. (definite)
understanding of the expressions.

81a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 86 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 169 ────────

6B AFTER GRADUATION

VOCABULARY

A The people below are college seniors or recent graduates.
WORD BANK
Take turns reading their plans aloud with a partner.
Definite future time
“I want to do an internship this summer. At some point before
after graduation
in a month
then, I have to create a resume.” —Linh
next year
“I’m going to take time off in the near future, maybe after
this summer
graduation, and go on vacation.” —Martina
Indefinite future time
“I’m working now, but eventually, I’d like to go back to school and
soon
get my PhD.” —Roberto
in a few days / weeks
in the near future
“Someday, I’d like the opportunity to set up a company and be my
at some point
own boss, but not yet. I have a lot to learn still.” —Simon
someday / eventually

B Look at the blue expressions in A. Answer the questions. Then tell a partner.
Which person . . .
Roberto
1. wants to return to school?
Linh
2. wants to get some work experience over the summer?
Simon
3. would like to work for himself / herself?
Martina
4. is planning not to work or study for a short time?
Linh
5. needs to create a summary of his / her education and job experience?
Simon
6. wants the chance to start a business?

C When do the people in A want to do these things? Do they give a definite future time or not?
Linh gives a definite future time: this summer. The
Tell a partner.
rest are indefinite future times (at some point, in
the near future, eventually, someday).
D Look again at the blue expressions in A. Do you want to
do any of these things? If so, when? Use the future time
expressions to tell a partner.

© National Geographic Learning
Fousseyni Djikine, originally
from Mali, is his own boss at
BMK, a popular restaurant that
he opened in Paris, France.

Lesson B | 81

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 87 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 170 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5 min
Ask the class to look at the photo
and answer these questions: What
LIFE’S ESSENTIAL
are these students doing? Do
you have a similar ceremony in
QUESTIONS
your country? What happens? If
you have any students who have
already graduated, encourage
Wait, what?
them to describe their own
In this question, wait reminds us
experience of a graduation
to stop and think. Before we make
ceremony. If none of your students
an important decision, we need to
have graduated yet, have them
understand the situation fully.
describe what they think happens.
How can I help?
When someone needs help,
CULTURE TIP: Graduation
it’s good to ask, How can I help?
ceremonies
Then the other person can give you
In the US, there are graduation
a specific answer, and you will be
more useful.
ceremonies at every stage of a
student’s school and college life,
What truly matters?
whereas in some other countries,
Sometimes it’s hard to make a
the term graduation only refers
decision. When this happens, it
to the moment you leave
helps to ask yourself: What is most
university with a degree. Students
important?
around the world also celebrate
graduation in different ways and
Students cheer during a Harvard University
at different times of year. In some
graduation ceremony in Cambridge,
countries, it’s a special event for
Massachusetts (US).
the whole family to attend and in
others the students all celebrate
you a full-time job. You are excited about
In a Harvard University graduation speech,
together and have parties.
the opportunity until your boss tells you the
speaker James Ryan talked about “life’s
starting pay. You stop and think, Wait, what?
essential questions.” By asking these simple
The pay is very low. You really want the job,
but important questions, we can make better
but you wonder, How will I support myself ?1
choices in our lives. We can help others, too,
A Read the title of the article.
Ryan believes. But how can these questions
It won’t be easy.
What do you think is one of
actually help us in our everyday lives? Here is
Your boss gives you a few days to think over
“life’s essential questions”? Tell
one example:
the offer, so you talk to a friend about it. You tell
the class. 5 min
Imagine. It’s the summer after graduation,
your friend you’re not sure whether you should
Refer students to the title of
and you’re doing an interesting internship at
accept the low pay or quit and apply for other
the text and ask them to think
a company you like. The only problem is the
jobs. You’re even considering taking some time
about and write down an
internship is part time and unpaid. But, after
off to do something else, like travel. Your friend
a month of working hard, your boss offers
listens and asks, How can I help?
essential question for life. Avoid
giving too much guidance so
82 | UNIT 6
that students come up with a
variety of different questions.
When everyone has written a
purpose. Then students should
exams, so students need to
question, ask students to read
compare their answers with a
develop this reading skill.
theirs aloud and explain why it
partner’s before checking the
is “essential.”
answers as a class. Make sure
© National Geographic Learning
C Read the whole article. Then
everyone knows why c is the
circle T for true or F for false.
B Identifying incorrect answers.
extra and incorrect answer.
Correct the false statements.
Read about the three essential
10 min
questions in the box below the
Identifying incorrect answers.
The word internship was
title. Then match each question
When students read a text
introduced on page 81,
(1–3) with its purpose (a–d).
and answer questions, it’s
but check that everyone
One purpose is extra. 5 min
important that they can explain
remembers the meaning (when
why something is incorrect as
Set a time limit of about two
a student or trainee works for
well as why something else is
minutes for students to study
an organization with no pay
correct. This type of reading
the text below the title and to
to gain experience). Ask if
question is often included on
match each question to its

82 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 88 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 171 ────────

anyone in the class has ever
done an internship and find out
A Read the title of the article. What do you
what happened. Have students
think is one of “life’s essential questions”?
read the rest of the article and
Tell the class.
then answer the questions. As
they read and answer, they
B Read about the three essential questions
need to be able to figure out
in the box below the title. Then match each
question (1–3) with its purpose (a–d). One
and explain why items 1 and
purpose is extra.
3 are false before they rewrite
b
1. Wait, what?
them so they are correct.
d
2. How can I help?
a
3. What truly matters?
D Retelling. With a partner, take
a. to help you make a difficult choice
turns answering the questions
b. to be sure you understand something well
to retell the story. 15 min
c. to ask why something is true
d. to offer useful assistance
The main part of the article
is written in the form of an
C Read the whole article. Then circle T for true
imaginary story describing a
or F for false. Correct the false statements.
summer after graduation. So
1. James Ryan was a speaker at T F
students will need to read it
the University of Massachusetts.
He was a speaker at a Harvard University graduation.
again and take notes in answer
2. In the article, you were offered a T F
full-time job after four weeks at an internship.
to the three questions. Then
3. You are excited about the starting pay. T F
have students work in pairs and
You are not excited. You are surprised and unsure what to do.
4. Your friend says you should ask T F
compare their answers. As they
for higher pay.
compare, they can retell the
5. Asking the question What truly T F
whole story using their notes as
matters? helps you make a hard decision.
guidance.
D With a partner, take
ACADEMIC SKILL
Retelling. The ability to retell
turns answering the
Retelling
the main parts of a story (or
questions to retell
Retelling a story helps
you remember the main
the story.
any type of text) is a way of
points and check your
1. What happened
summarizing the main points
understanding.
after a month at
You ask your friend for some advice and
of a text and helps students
your internship? Was this a good thing or
she suggests that first you ask your boss
remember the main message.
My boss offered me a full-time job.
bad thing? Why?
It was a good thing, but the pay was very low.
for higher pay. However, if the company
It’s also very useful for language
2. What choices did you consider after you
can’t pay more, she says that you should
accepting the low pay; quitting and
got the job offer?
applying for other jobs; taking time off
learning because it practices
ask yourself, What truly matters? What is
to do something else, like travel
3. What was your friend’s advice? Was it
and recycles vocabulary from a
most important right now: the money or the
Ask my boss for higher pay; Ask myself,
helpful?
text. Retelling also reflects what
opportunity to work for this company? How
What truly matters? Yes, it was helpful.
will your choice help you in the future? You
we do in everyday life when,
E Imagine you are going to respond to your
thank your friend and smile because you
for example, we report what we
boss about the job offer. In pairs, role-play a
know that with the help of “life’s essential
conversation between you and your boss. Use
read in a newspaper or heard
questions,” you’ll make the right decision. 42
ideas from the reading and some of your own,
on TV.
too. Switch roles and do the role play again.
1If you support yourself, you make your own money
and live on your own.
E Imagine you are going to
Lesson B | 83
respond to your boss about the
job offer. In pairs, role-play a
conversation between you and
your boss. Use ideas from the
The boss The intern
reading and some of your own,
too. Switch roles and do the
I’m really happy with your work. Can I ask for a higher salary?
role play again. 20 min
© National Geographic Learning
I’d like to offer you a job.    Will I have the opportunity for a
To set this role play up, you
promotion in the future?
I’m afraid we can’t pay you a
could start by discussing the
big salary in the beginning.    What kind of training will I
two roles as a class and elicit
receive?
useful language on the board.
Do you want more time to think
Ask students what they think
about it?    What are the other benefits?
the boss might say and what
questions the other person
Then, when you have some    Monitor their conversations
might ask. Write their ideas on
ideas on the board, put    and note down any problems
the board, similar to this:
students in pairs. Have them    with language. Give feedback
take turns playing the role    afterward.
of the boss and the intern.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson B | 83

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 89 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 172 ────────

LISTENING

A Listen for gist. You are going to hear three different conversations. In each, which sentence is
true? Listen and circle the best answer. 43

1. a. She’s going to graduate soon.
b. She is applying to graduate school.
c. She just got accepted to a good school.
2. a. She’s working on her resume.
b. She’s going to be her own boss.
c. She just got a summer internship.
3. a. She wants to take time off from college.
b. She’s planning to do an internship.
c. She wants to change her major.

B Listen for details. Read the sentences below. Then listen again. Write one word in each blank and
circle the correct answers. 43

Conversation 1
WORD BANK
business
1. The woman wants to get a degree in .
A paid position is a job in
which you make money.
2. She’s planning to go this July / in the spring.
A school year is divided
Conversation 2
into terms (for example,
3. The internship is .
full time / unpaid    the spring and fall terms).

4. She hopes to make money at some point / right away.
Conversation 3
study
5. The woman wants to in New York.
6. She plans to do this after graduation / in the near future.
7. She will / won’t return to regular classes in September.

C What are the women in each conversation doing or planning to do? Do you know anyone who did
any of these things? Tell a partner.

The third woman wants to . . . My
older brother is doing that now.

Many people move to big cities
such as New York after graduation.

© National Geographic Learning

84 | UNIT 6

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 90 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 173 ────────

with a partner’s. Play the audio again and check
LISTENING
answers with the class.
WARM-UP 5 min
Listen for details. Remind students that even
Have students recall the vocabulary from page 81
when listening for details they don’t need to
and write a few words and expressions on the
understand every word they hear. They should
board. Write the actions in one column (e.g., do an
focus on key words that will help them and not
internship, take time off) and time expressions in
worry about words they don’t understand.
another (e.g., next year, at some point). In pairs,
have students think of two or three examples using
C What are the women in each conversation doing
some of the new vocabulary to share with the
or planning to do? Do you know anyone who did
class. Call on different pairs to share one of their
any of these things? Tell a partner. 10–15 min
sentences and write them on the board. Make
Have students read the directions. Then model
corrections as necessary with students’ help.
the example conversation with a student. Give
students a moment to think about people they
know who have done similar things. Assign
TEACHING OPTION 5–10 min
students to pairs to answer the questions.
Before students open their books, one option
Remind students to ask follow-up questions to
is to play the audio of three conversations and
find out more information. Monitor and provide
ask students to write down what they think they
help as necessary, asking follow-up questions to
understand in each one. In particular, ask them
prompt further conversation.
to write any goals or time expressions that they
hear. Afterwards, ask students to report back
TEACHING TIP: Thinking time
what they think they heard, but don’t correct their
understanding at this stage.
The exercise in C is a good example of when a
teacher needs to give students plenty of thinking
time. Sometimes, teachers ask students a question,
A Listen for gist. You are going to hear three
or ask students to ask each other questions, and
different conversations. In each, which sentence
then worry when they don’t answer or start talking
is true? Listen and circle the best answer. 43
immediately. As a general rule, we can wait about
10–15 min
3–5 seconds for students to answer a question
Go over the options for each conversation. Point
that just tests knowledge. For questions that are
out the explanations in the Word Bank. Play
more challenging or without a Yes / No answer, be
the audio, pausing after each conversation for
prepared to allow at least 15 seconds, and even
students to choose their answer. Have students
more thinking time for an exercise like C that
compare their answers with a partner’s, then
requires students to draw on their own experience
play the audio again. Check answers with the
as well as deciding what English to use.
class. Have students say what words in the
conversations helped them.
CULTURE TIP: Definite and indefinite plans
Listen for gist. Remind students that listening
English speakers sometimes make social invitations
for gist means to just try to understand the
with an indefinite future time reference, such as,
general idea. They don’t need to worry about
Let’s have coffee soon! This is a friendly gesture
understanding all of the details or specific main
rather than an actual invitation. A real invitation is for
ideas. Realizing that they can understand the
a specific time; for example, Let’s have coffee soon.
general idea of something they listen to, even
Are you free tomorrow? Then the people agree
when there are words that they don’t know or
on a time and place. You should come over for
don’t catch because of the speed of the speech,
dinner some time does not mean that the person is
is very motivating for students, therefore it is
welcome any day. Would you like to come over for
motivating to provide opportunities for this.
© National Geographic Learningdinner on Friday? is a real invitation.
B Listen for details. Read the sentences below.
Then listen again. Write one word in each blank
and circle the correct answers. 43 10 min
Go over the sentences with the class. Have
students identify and underline key words to
focus on when they listen again. Make sure
students understand that they have to do two
things as they listen. Play the audio again,
then give students time to complete their
answers. Have them compare their answers

Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson B | 84a

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 91 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 174 ────────

You can make all of them negative by adding not:
GRAMMAR
certainly not, definitely not, probably not, possibly
not, maybe not, perhaps not.
WARM-UP 5 min
Write this prediction about the future on the board:
In the future, people won’t go to school or work.
B Read the text and underline examples of be
They will study or work from home. Explain that
going to and will. 5–10 min
this is a prediction about the future and ask your
Ask students to read the text first and ask, Where
students, Do you think it will come true? Invite
is the robot in the photo from? (A classroom in
students to say if they think it will or won’t come
Finland) What can it do? (speak 23 languages).
true and give reasons for their answers. Afterwards,
Then have students underline the verb forms of
underline the verbs will and won’t in the two
be going to and will. You could also ask them to
sentences and explain that we use this verb for
underline any adverbs of certainty in the text.
making predictions.

C Circle the correct words to complete the
A Read the Unit 6, Lesson B Grammar Reference
sentences about the text in B. In one sentence,
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
both answers are possible. 5 min
the exercises below. 20–30 min
After students have circled their answers, have
Go over the statements and questions in
them explain why they chose one or the other, or
the chart. Then have students complete the
why both answers are possible in item 2.
exercises on page 196. The Grammar Reference
chart on page 196 includes further examples
D What’s your opinion? Will robots do more
and usage descriptions expanding on the
teaching in the future? What else do you think
information in the chart on page 85. Alternatively,
robots are going to do in the future? Tell the class.
you could have students complete the exercises
10–15 min
for homework the day before and check
understanding during class.
Explain to students how we often express our
opinions using the expression I think . . . will.
Give some examples in full sentences such as,
LANGUAGE TIP: Be going to and will
I think I will become a teacher. / I think robots
Will is used to make a prediction of what we think
will become teachers. / I don’t think robots
is likely to happen in the long term: You will get
will replace teachers. Tell students to work
married someday. (There is no plan for you to get
individually for a few minutes and write down their
married, but the speaker thinks it is likely to happen
opinions about robots and teaching, and then
someday.) Use be going to to talk about something
write what else robots will do. Remind them that
that is about to happen: Careful! You’re going to
they can also add adverbs of certainty in their
spill your coffee. (The speaker thinks this is about
opinions. After a few minutes, either ask students
to happen now, unless something changes now.)
to read some of their opinions aloud, or put them
There is only a slight difference between You’re
into pairs or small groups and have them report
going to do great in your new job! (The speaker
back to their classmates.
knows you are starting a new job soon and predicts
you will be good at it when you start.) and You’ll do
great in your new job. (The speaker predicts that
E Work in pairs and write three predictions about
when you work you’ll do a good job because you’re
your partner’s future using be going to and will.
so smart.) The meaning is slightly different, but the
You can write sentences about his / her future
ultimate prediction is the same, so they are often
education, job, home, or travel experiences. Then
taught as interchangeable.
take turns reading your predictions to each other.
Do you think your partner’s predictions will come
true? 20 min
LANGUAGE TIP: Adverbs of certainty
Assign students to pairs. Ask them to work
We often use adverbs of certainty such as certainly,
individually to make predictions about their
definitely, probably, and possibly with the verb
© National Geographic Learningpartner’s future. Then have them share their
will. You can also use them with be going to, but
predictions.
it’s less common. Make sure students understand
their use in terms of the level of certainty. Certainly
and definitely mean you are 100% certain. Probably
means you are about 80–90% certain and possibly
means you are about 50–60% certain. Maybe
and perhaps are adverbs we normally use when
answering a question: Will we use robots for
teaching? Maybe / Perhaps.

85a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 92 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 175 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 6, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

PREDICTIONS WITH BE GOING TO AND WILL

She’s going to / She will be very successful.
Some students aren’t going to / won’t pass the exam.

He definitely won’t study history in college.
He’ll probably study business.
Maybe he’ll study economics, too.

Is she going to / Will she go to graduate school?
Maybe. / Probably not.

B Read the text and underline examples of be going to and will.

A Robot for a Teacher
In a primary school in Finland, the
teachers have a new assistant.
His name is Elias, and he’s a
robot. Elias speaks 23 languages,
and he’s going to help the
students with their language
learning. The teachers also think
Elias will motivate the children.

But are the teachers worried about their jobs? Will robots like Elias replace them
in the future? Probably not. Robots can help with subjects like languages and
mathematics, but they definitely won’t be able to manage a classroom of young
students!

C Circle the correct words to complete the sentences about the text in B. In one sentence, both
answers are possible.

1. Elias will / won’t help the students with language learning.
2. The children are going to / will be more interested in learning because
of Elias.

3. In the future, robots will probably / probably won’t replace teachers.
4. Robots are / aren’t going to manage classrooms in the future.

D What’s your opinion? Will robots do more teaching in the future? What else do you think robots are
going to do in the future? Tell the class.
© National Geographic Learning
E Work in pairs and write three predictions about your partner’s future using be going to and will. You
can write sentences about his / her future education, job, home, or travel experiences. Then take
turns reading your predictions to each other. Do you think your partner’s predictions will come true?

I think you’ll probably study
biology and become a doctor.
I probably won’t. I’m not
interested in science!

Lesson B | 85

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 93 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 176 ────────

The Universidad
Nacional
Autónoma de
México (UNAM)
campus in
Mexico City,
Mexico

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Did you ever write a personal profile on . . .
i A personal profile
• social media? • a job application or resume?
is a short summary
(about 100–150 words)
• a school application? • anywhere else?
of your life. It might
include information
• a website?
about your school /
work experience, your
What information did you include? Tell the class.
abilities, where you
live, your interests,
goals, etc.
B Turn to the Unit 6 Writing appendix to read an example personal profile. Take
notes on the information below in your notebook.

1. Miguel’s school 4. school activities
UNAM    chess and swim teams at UNAM

2. major / subject 5. other abilities / interests
journalism    playing sports, learning languages, speaks
Spanish, English, and Portuguese
internship with El Universal,    He’s going to travel around Europe
3. work experience 6. future plans and goals
helping reporters with research and managing social    after graduation. Then he will do an internship with a Spanish
media accounts    media company. He plans to be a journalist in the future.
C You are going to write a personal profile for a partner. Interview him / her and ask for the
information in 1–6 in B. Take notes.
USEFUL EXPRESSIONS
Do you have any
I’m a student / employee at . . .
What are you
Are you in school    work experience?
I am going to graduate / I graduated
studying?
now? Where?
with . . .
Last year, I did an internship / got a
job at . . .
D WRITING Using your notes from C, write a personal profile
I studied / worked with . . .
for your partner. Use I and my in your writing.
In addition, . . . / I also like . . .
After graduation / leaving school, I’m
E Exchange profiles with your partner and read his or her profile
going to . . .
I intend to / plan to / hope to . . .
about you. Circle any information that is incorrect or incomplete
© National Geographic Learning
and make changes to the profile if necessary.

6B GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Describe educational and work goals
2. Mostly, yes.
Make predictions about the future
3. Not yet.

86 | UNIT 6

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 94 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 177 ────────

3. Do you have much work experience?
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
4. What activities do you do at school?
WARM-UP 5–10 min
5. Can you play any other sports? / What are
Ask students, Where and when do you give
your other interests or hobbies?
personal information? Elicit a few ideas such as at
6. Do you have any future plans or goals? / What
the doctor’s, when you fill in a form, logging on to a
are you going to do in the future?
website, buying something online. You can extend
the topic by asking students to say what kind of
Next, have students work in pairs and take turns
information they have to give in each example
interviewing their partner. They should take notes
(e.g., name, address, telephone number, age).
about their partner’s answers because they will
need detailed information to complete the writing
task in D.
A Did you ever write a personal profile on . . . 5 min
Ask students to read the definition of a personal
D WRITING Using your notes from C, write a
profile and the kind of information it includes.
personal profile for your partner. Use I and my in
Then, have students look at the four reasons
your writing. 15 min
for writing a personal profile. (Some of these
might have been mentioned in the Warm-Up.) If
Having interviewed their partner, ask students to
students haven’t written many profiles before (in
write a personal profile as if they are that person,
their own first language or in English), ask them if
using the pronouns I and me. They should make
they have ever read anyone else’s and ask, What
use of the writing phrases listed in the Useful
information was there in the profile?
Expressions list and structure it in a similar way
to the model version in the appendix.
LANGUAGE TIP: Personal profile
E Exchange profiles with your partner and read his
Typically, we write personal profiles on resumes and
or her profile about you. Circle any information
job applications. Students may also have heard
that is incorrect or incomplete and make changes
the term “biodata,” which is a short personal profile
to the profile if necessary. 10 min
often used in professional situations such as a
conference program. On websites, the profile often
Have students exchange their writing and read
appears on the “About” page of a website, and on
about themselves in the profile. If they disagree
social media there is often a “profile” when you click
with any information, they can make changes or
on a person’s name.
corrections to any of the language. Encourage
them to ask you if they are unsure whether
something is a mistake or not.
B Turn to the Unit 6 Writing appendix to read an
example personal profile. Take notes on the
Diagnostics
information below in your notebook. 10 min
Check students’ competencies as follows:
In the appendix, there is a model version of a
• Are students able to talk about their future goals?
personal profile for a student named Miguel.
• Can they ask each other questions about goals
Have students read it and look for the specific
and the future?
information to write notes for 1–6. Items 1 and 2
• Are they able to write a personal profile?
only require noting one or two words. The rest
will need students to write phrases or whole
sentences, especially for item 6 because Miguel
has more than one future goal or plan.
6B
GOALS
Review student’s self-assessment in the
C You are going to write a personal profile for
goals box. Point out to students where
a partner. Interview him / her and ask for the
they learned these skills in the unit. If they
information in 1–6 in B. Take notes. 15 min
© National Geographic Learning
rated their ability below Yes, I can, they can
turn back to those pages and review the
To help students with this exercise, work together
exercises.
as a class at first. Refer to the example questions
on the page and then ask students to suggest
Describe educational and work goals:
more questions for each of the six items in B.
Vocabulary, page 81, A–D; Reading, page
Some possible questions might include:
83, A–D; Listening, page 84, A–C
Make predictions about the future:
1. Which school do you go to? / Are you in
Grammar, page 85, C–E; Active English,
school?
page 86, A–E
2. What is your major? / What subjects do you
study?

Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson B | 86a

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 95 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 178 ────────

of their own. Next, tell students to watch the
GLOBAL VOICES
video and not to worry about understanding
every word. They should watch and listen for the
WARM-UP 5 min
main meaning and match the three speakers to
Write the words Dream Job on the board. Ask
the goals.
students to suggest some examples of dream
jobs, such as pop star, Hollywood actor, or famous
scientist, and write them on the board. Then ask,
B Complete the sentences from the video with the
How do you think you achieve these jobs? and
missing verbs. Then watch the video again and
elicit different suggestions of the challenges of, for
check your answers. 15 min
example, becoming a pop star.
Students should be able to complete the
sentences with the eight verbs by recalling what
they understood from the first viewing, but also
ABOUT THE VIDEO
because many of them collocate with the noun
The video shows a series of interviews with real
that follows. In pairs, students can compare
people talking about how they are going to achieve
their answers before you play the video again to
their career goals. We see Ricardo, a student of
check them.
environmental engineering talking about studying
at a university in Peru. Then we see Pedro talking
about getting work experience in moviemaking,
TEACHING TIP: Vocabulary notebooks
and Maite talking about working in a design studio
When students record new words in their
and how she wants to start her own business. They
notebooks, make sure they are writing down both
also describe their challenges and how they might
the verb and its collocate or the phrase it typically
overcome them.
appears with. For example, they will need to write
face the future or face challenges rather than simply
the verb face, or write the whole phrase learn on the
EXTRA! Additional warm-up video
job and maybe write it in a complete sentence or
exercise
give their own definition of what it means.
Because the video is quite challenging, you could
play it once just so that students become familiar
with it. Write the following table on the board and
C Work in pairs and interview each other about
play the video. Ask students to complete the table
your goals and dreams with the questions below.
with short notes about the speakers’ nationality (if it
20 min
is said) and current occupation.
Have students read the six questions first and
think about their answers individually. Tell them
Ricardo Pedro Maite
to write notes and prepare to be interviewed.
Where is he /
Monitor their progress and provide any language
she from?
they will need. Then, in pairs, they should take
turns finding out about each other’s goals and
What is his /
dreams. As they listen, they should write down
her current
their partner’s answers.
occupation?

Answers:
EXPANSION: Write a summary article
For homework, ask students to write about the
Ricardo is from Lima, Peru. He’s a student. He’s
person they interviewed in C, as if it’s an article for a
studying environmental engineering.
magazine or website. They should use the notes they
Pedro is from Quito, Ecuador. He’s working as a
wrote down based on the answers to the questions
freelance cinematographer and videographer.
and base the article on them. Instead of writing it in
the first person, as they did with the personal profile
Maite doesn’t say where she’s from. She’s currently
on the previous page, this article should be in the
working in a design studio. 10 min
© National Geographic Learningthird person using he / she, him / her. 20 min
A Watch a video about achieving your goals. Match
the three people with their present and future
goals (a–e). Some items will have more than one
correct answer. 10 min
Before watching, talk through the words in the
Word Bank and check that students understand
the meaning. Ask a few students to try to say the
new words and phrases in a complete sentence

87a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 6, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 96 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 179 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A Watch a video about achieving your goals. Match the three people with their present and future
goals (a–e). Some items will have more than one correct answer.
c, e
b a, d
1. Ricardo 2. Pedro 3. Maite
a. To do a master’s degree in a foreign country
WORD BANK
b. To take care of the environment
achieve your dreams
c. To start a new business
reach your goals
face challenges deal
d. To find financial support to make a movie
with difficult problems
e. To work in a design studio for a few more years
financial support
when someone helps
you by giving or lending
B Complete the sentences from the video with the missing verbs.
you money
Then watch the video again and check your answers.
overcome deal with
achieve become do face get learn make overcome    and get past something
difficult
1. “A lot of us have career goals and plans for the future. The problem is
get
knowing how to started.”
achieve
2. “He’s getting some real work experience before he goes back to school to his
dream of making movies.”
become
3. “Someday, I would like to a famous Hollywood photographer . . .”
face
4. “What challenges do Pedro and Maite think they will in the future?”
make
5. “. . . you need a lot of money to a movie, a lot of time, teamwork, and sacrifices.”
do
6. “First, decide what you want and your research.”
learn
7. “. . . get some work experience and on the job.”
overcome
8. “Finally, identify the challenges and be prepared to them with some hard work.”

C Work in pairs and interview each other about your goals and dreams with the questions below.
1. What are your career goals and dreams?    3. How can you get started?
2. How can you do more research about them?    4. Are you going to go back to school in
the future? Or are you going to get work
experience and learn on the job?

5. What challenges will you face in the future?
6. How will you overcome the challenges and
achieve your dreams?

One of Pedro’s goals is to win an
Oscar someday. The Oscars are
© National Geographic Learning
famous awards for filmmakers
and actors.

Lesson B | 87

WLTB_L2_U06_ptg01.indd 97 30/04/21 1:18 PM

──────── Page 180 ────────

REAL WORLD LINK DESIGN A SURVEY

Residents of Vancouver,
Canada have easy
access to nature with the
405-hectare (1,000-acre)
Stanley Park located right
outside the city.

FUTURE CITIES SURVEY RESULTS
What do young people today want their future cities to look like? What types of neighborhoods do they
hope to live and work in someday? According to one new survey of young people (ages 18–35), only
12% intend to live in cities with more than one million people. It was a survey of 5,624 young people
from different European countries. Here are some of the key results.

Question 1: What will be most important for you to live near?
In the survey, young people chose two items from a list of choices; the graph shows the percentage of
people that chose each item. Most of them plan to live in neighborhoods near their friends and family,
their work, and—interestingly—nature.

Friends and family    50%

Work    49%

Access to nature    30%

Culture, entertainment,
20%
and nightlife
0 10 20 30 40 50

Question 2: Which type of transportation do you prefer for getting to work / school?
The most common answers were going by car, taking public transportation, riding a bike, and going
on foot.
Bicycle Walking Public transportation Personal car Other
© National Geographic Learning
7%
7% 12%    7%
13%
14%    9%
22%
13%
14%
31%    30%
35%    17%
37%
16%

33%    25%
22%    36%

Sweden    Switzerland
Austria    Norway

88

WLTB_L2_RWL02_ptg01.indd 2 30/04/21 1:09 PM

──────── Page 181 ────────

questions from the survey and then write down
REAL WORLD LINK: DESIGN
the results for each one. Note that for Question 1,
A SURVEY, Units 4–6
students get two choices from the list, so they
can answer twice. Afterwards, ask the leader to
WARM-UP 5 min
report back on the group’s answers to the three
Ask students to look at the photo of Vancouver. Ask,
survey questions.
What words describe this city? Write their ideas on
the board. Then ask, How is Vancouver similar to or
NOTES
different from your town or city? Invite more ideas
and provide any new vocabulary for describing and
comparing a city.

LANGUAGE TIP: Charts

In the survey, the results are presented in the form
of different charts. You can pre-teach the exact
names of these charts because this vocabulary will
be useful when students write and give reports with
charts in their future academic studies and work.
The chart in Question 1 is a bar chart. In Question 2,
it’s a pie chart, and in Question 3, it’s a table.

EXTRA! Additional reading task
Before students start reading the survey results in
detail in A, you could write these questions on the
board and give students one minute to read the text
and answer the questions:

1. What age group answered the survey?

2. How many answered?

3. Where did they live?

4. What did the survey want to find out?

(Answers: 1. 18–35, 2. 5,624, 3. In European
countries, 4. About where people will live, the type
of transportation they will use, and green spaces.)
5 min

A A survey is an activity in which many people are
asked the same question(s) to get information
about what they think or do. Read the survey
results and circle the correct word in each
sentence. 5–10 min
Have students read the sentences summarizing
the results in the text. Remind students that most
of the words in bold were introduced on page 48
in Unit 4. They can refer back to that page if they
need help with meaning. Review the meaning of
© National Geographic Learning
over and under, if necessary. Check the answers
as a class.

B Work in groups and answer the three questions
from the survey. Are your answers similar to the
survey results? Why or why not? 10 min
Put students into groups of four or five and ask
one student in each group to lead the discussion
and write down the results for the groups.
The group should discuss each of the three

Teacher’s Book UNITS 4–6 | 88a

WLTB_L2_RWL02_ptg01.indd 3 30/04/21 1:09 PM

──────── Page 182 ────────

C You Choose In your groups, you are going to
is for one person (the leader) to start and end the
prepare a survey about life in the future. Follow
talk and invite different people at different points of
the steps below. 15–20 min
the presentation to present certain results.
Put students in groups again (maybe the same
groups as in B) and ask one student to be
LARGE CLASS OPTION
the group leader. In step 1, the group needs
In large classes, one group could present to
to choose one of the topics; the three topics
another group rather than to the whole class.
reflect the content from Units 4, 5, and 6. Once
Another option, is to end the lesson by having every
students have chosen a topic, they can refer
group report back their results and collate them on
back to the relevant unit for help with vocabulary.
the board so that students can see the results for
Then, in step 2, the group should first think of
the whole class added together.
five questions to ask in their surveys. Next, they
should decide how they are going to give their
survey to their classmates by choosing from the
TEACHING ONLINE
three options provided. Remind them that the
If you are teaching online, each group can
option they choose might affect how they write
screenshare their results and present them.
the questions. You might need to decide which
Alternatively, students could create a video
option is possible depending on your classroom
recording of their presentation to share online.
context. For example, with a small class, it might
be easy to make copies of the surveys and hand
them out (Option 1) or with larger classes or
EXPANSION: Writing a report
online classes it might be more effective to put
Either in class or for homework, students could
the survey online (Option 2).
work individually and write a report of their survey
results. The report could be written in the same
D In your groups, study the results from your survey
style as the text on page 88, with an introduction
and prepare a group presentation for the rest of
and then the three questions with charts provided.
the class. If possible, show slides or a poster of
To make the results more meaningful, students
the results. 20 min
could report the results for the whole class rather
than just their group. 15–20 min
The amount of time students need to prepare
their presentations will depend on the size of the
survey and how professional-looking you want
the results to be in their presentations. Ideally,
NOTES
the group will put together all the results and
turn the data into the form of different charts to
show in their presentations. Also, draw students’
attention to the list of Useful Expressions for
giving a presentation. These will help students
structure their talks and help those listening to
follow them. If possible, provide time for students
to rehearse their presentation as a group before
they present to the entire class.

E Take turns giving your presentations to the class.
When you are listening, ask questions and make
comments at the end. 10–15 min
The amount of time needed for this stage will
depend on the number of groups you have. Set
a time limit of about 3–4 minutes per presentation
and then allow a little time for questions. Make
© National Geographic Learning
sure that the students who are listening to a
group know that they will need to ask questions
at the end. This encourages them to listen more
closely than if they don’t have a task.

TEACHING TIP: Group presentations

Group presentations can be a bit chaotic in the
classroom if they aren’t prepared well. Make sure
each group knows exactly who is speaking and
when. One way to organize the group presentation

89a | Teacher’s Book UNITS 4–6

WLTB_L2_RWL02_ptg01.indd 4 30/04/21 1:09 PM

──────── Page 183 ────────

UNITS 4–6
Question 3: Does your city have enough
Percentage of people that think their
green spaces?
Country    city has enough green spaces
More than half of the young people in the
Austria 55
survey think their city has enough green
Norway 57
spaces, but many young people also think
Sweden 58
future cities will need more.
Switzerland 52

A A survey is an activity in which many people are asked the same question(s) to get information
about what they think or do. Read the survey results and circle the correct word in each sentence.

1. In the future, less / more than 10% of the young people in the survey plan to live in cities of over
one million.

2. Exactly / Approximately half of young people in the survey want to live in neighborhoods near
their friends and family.

3. Over / About a third hope to live somewhere with access to nature.
4. Exactly / Nearly a quarter of the young people from Sweden prefer to get around by bicycle.
5. Over / Under half of the young people in Switzerland think their city has enough green spaces.

B Work in groups and answer the three questions from the survey. Are your answers similar to the
survey results? Why or why not?

C You Choose In your groups, you will prepare a survey about life in the future. Follow the steps.
1. Choose one of these topics to research:
• Shopping in the future • Education in the future • Transportation in the future
2. Write five questions for your survey. Then, as a group, choose one of the options for giving your
survey to the rest of the class.

Option 1: Make copies of the questions on paper and hand out the survey to everyone in the class.

Option 2: Put your survey online and ask your classmates to fill it out online.

Option 3: Interview each person individually and write down their answers.

Do you think people    Are you going    What will be the most
will . . . ?    to . . . ?    important . . . ?

D In your groups, study the results from your survey
USEFUL EXPRESSIONS
and prepare a group presentation for the rest of
We’d like to present the results of our survey.
the class. If possible, show slides or a poster of
The topic of the survey was . . .
the results.
© National Geographic Learning
Question 1 was . . . and here are the results.
As you can see from the slide / chart / graph, . . .
Most people think . . .
E Take turns giving your presentations to the class.
Half of us will . . .
When you are listening, ask questions and make
None of us are going to . . .
Thank you for listening to our presentation.
comments at the end.
Do you have any questions?
Thanks for your presentation.
I have a question . . .
It’s really interesting
that most people . . .

89

WLTB_L2_RWL02_ptg01.indd 5 30/04/21 1:09 PM

──────── Page 184 ────────

UNIT 7

7
ABOUT THE PHOTO
This photo shows dancers at a
parade during the Carnival of
Oruro. Oruro is Bolivia’s fifth largest
CELEBRATIONS
city, with a population of about
a quarter of a million people. Its
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
famous carnival is popular with
QUESTIONS.
locals and tourists. The history of
1. What is this festival? How are people celebrating?
The Carnival of Oruro; they are wearing costumes and dancing.
the parade dates back to before
2. Do you know of a similar festival in your country
the Spanish arrived, when the
or another country? If yes, what happens?
ancient town was called Uru Uru.
WARM-UP VIDEO
It was a religious festival for the
people of the Andes. Then, upon
A Watch the video. What important sporting
their arrival, the Spanish made
event are the people watching?
World Cup soccer
the celebrations a Christian event.
WORD BANK
Nowadays, the parade is a mixture
Fans are people who enjoy something
of Catholic and Indigenous rituals
(for example, a sport or a team).
An inspiration is something or someone
and takes place on the Saturday
that makes a person want to do something.
before Lent (six weeks before
If you watch a game live, you watch it in
person or at the time it happens.
Easter).

B Read the questions and guess the answers.
INTRODUCE THE THEME
Then watch again and check your answers.

1. How do most fans watch big sporting events?
In this unit, students explore
on TV or online
2. How do “a few lucky ones” watch the game?
the idea of celebrations and
They watch it live.
3. What happens when one team wins?
festivities. The language in the
4. When a favorite team wins an important
two lessons supports aspects of
game, why do people feel happy?
communicating on this theme.
5. When the team scores a point, what do the
fans do?
Everyone jumps off their seats. Others
In Lesson A, students learn how
beat drums and sing songs.
to describe parties. They also
C Answer the questions in pairs.
practice the listening strategies
1. What was the last sporting event you
of listening for gist, listening for
watched? How did you watch it? Who won?
Thousands of dancers in
details, and summarizing, as well
2. Are you a fan of any team? If yes, which one?
handmade costumes parade
as the academic skill of making
3. When you watch your team play, do you
through the streets during the
get emotional (do you yell or jump up and
connections. In Speaking, they
Carnival of Oruro, a cultural and
down)?
religious festival in Oruro, Bolivia.
practice inviting and accepting or
Additional answers, Ex. B
refusing invitations. Finally, they
3. The fans celebrate. (“Epic celebrations begin.”)
learn how to show agreement.
4. Athletes are an inspiration to players and fans, so
when they win, we feel like we’ve won, too.
In Lesson B, students learn to
talk about how different events
and festivals around the world
are celebrated. They read about
the Orange Festival and the
example, you celebrate your
Cup Championship final, soccer’s
Festival of Color, practicing the
birthday. Then present the noun
biggest international event. Soccer
reading strategy of categorizing
form, celebration.
is the most important sport in Latin
information. Finally, they talk and
America, Europe, and Africa. This
write about a holiday or festival.
Look at the photo. Answer the
video takes a look at soccer fans
© National Geographic Learning
questions. 5 min
and how they react when watching
After the Warm-Up, students can
games—both in the stadium and at
WARM-UP 5 min
discuss the questions in pairs or
home with friends—explaining that
Write the verb celebrate on
as a class.
soccer (and other sports) unites
the board and ask, When do
people. Supporting a team and
you celebrate? Elicit ideas
watching a game gives people a
WARM-UP VIDEO
from students, such as on my
common interest, and so brings
About the video
birthday, at the New Year, on
them together. Furthermore,
Independence Day. If students
Soccer is considered the most
watching the athletes in action
don’t know the word, say, It
popular sport in the world. It
and watching your team play well is
means to show a day is important
is estimated that more than
inspiring. When a player scores a
by doing something special; for
600 million people watch the World

90 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 7

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 60 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 185 ────────

goal, or when our team wins, we
feel involved, like we have won, too.

Warm-Up 4 min
Ask students, Do you celebrate
when you watch sports? Which
sports? How do you celebrate?
Encourage students to try to
describe any special sporting
events they watch. Provide any
key vocabulary about how they
celebrate.

A Watch the video. What
important sporting event are
the people watching? 5 min
This question should be fairly
easy for most students to
answer as they watch. It’s
an opportunity to check their
overall understanding and
enjoy the video. Afterwards,
talk through the words in blue
in the Word Bank to help
students with B.

B Read the questions and guess
the answers. Then watch again
and check your answers.
10 min

Give students time to read the
five questions and try to predict
the answers. If students find
this hard, play the video again
and let them try to answer.
Then play the video one more
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
time and stop it at key moments
/ Make and respond to    / Talk about parties, festivals, and
invitations    holidays
to check the answers.
/ Agree with someone    / Describe what people do on those days

C Answer the questions in pairs.
10–15 min
watched, any performer they are
do when they watch the sport.
Have students work alone
a fan of, and what they do to show
Students can do this exercise
for a few minutes and make
they are enjoying a performance;
individually or in pairs and then
notes about their answers.
for example, applaud, shout out,
report back to the class, or to small
Then, put students into pairs.
jump up and down.
groups. Depending on resources
Have students talk about their
© National Geographic Learning
and internet access, research can
answers. Monitor and help
be done in or out of class.
with vocabulary and then invite
EXTRA! Post-viewing
some students to describe
10–15 min
their sporting events.
Have students go online and
research what other sports are very
TEACHING OPTION
popular around the world. Tell them
If you have some students who
to find out about a sport, including
aren’t interested in sports, suggest
in which countries it is most
that they talk about the last
popular. They can also find out if
musical or theatrical event they
there are any special things people

Teacher’s Book UNIT 7 | 91

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 61 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 186 ────────

7A PARTIES

Celebrations begin on
the field at the end of
a Super Bowl game in
East Rutherford, New
Jersey (US).

VOCABULARY

A What do you know about an event called the Super Bowl? Take the quiz and find out! Compare
your answers with a partner’s. Then check your answers at the bottom of the page.

1. The Super Bowl is the championship game for American football / soccer in the US.
2. It is currently held on the first Monday / Sunday in February.
3. More than two hundred million / one hundred million people watch it every year.
4. Not all of the viewers are football fans. Many watch to see the commercials / fireworks.
5. There is a big halftime show with famous athletes / singers.

B Read the information about how people celebrate the Super Bowl. Then match five of the words in
blue to the definitions below. One item has more than one possible answer.

Many people celebrate the day by throwing a party. They invite friends to come to their home.
Everyone gets together in the afternoon, and the game begins in the late afternoon or early evening.

Having your own Super Bowl party? Here is some advice on how to plan one:
WORD BANK
• Decorate your home or bake a cake with the teams’ colors.
attend / go to /
host / organize a party
• Play games. Have your guests try to guess the final score of the game.
• Buy plenty of “finger foods”—like chips and salsa—for the occasion.
• Don’t forget to have a good time!
celebrate
a. do something special and fun for an important event or holiday:
get together / throw / have a party
b. to meet and do something fun with other people:
decorate
c. to make something look nice for a special occasion:
occasion
d. an important time or celebration:
© National Geographic Learning
guests
e. the people you invite to your party:

C Complete the questions with words in blue from B. Then ask and answer the questions in pairs.
hrow
1. When do people usually t a party in your country?
elebrate    lan
2. What is one special day that you c and p a party for?
nvite    ogether
3. Who do you normally i and get t with?
ecorate
4. How do you d your home?
uests ccasion
5. What food do you serve to your g for the o ?
1. American football 2. Sunday 3. one hundred million 4. commercials 5. singers

92 | UNIT 7

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 62 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 187 ────────

Allow a few minutes for students to complete the
7A PARTIES
five questions with a missing word. To increase the
challenge, students could cover up B and try to
VOCABULARY
remember the missing words from memory. Check
the answers as a class and then put students into
WARM-UP 5–10 min
pairs to ask and answer the questions. As they
With the class, brainstorm types of parties and
listen, students should write down their partner’s
list them on the board (for example, anniversary
answers and then report back to the class at the
party, going-away party, beach party, costume
end. If some students describe the same type
party, dinner party, graduation party, office party,
of party or special day, they can compare their
pool party, retirement party, surprise party). Ask
answers and see if they do the same things.
students, What was the best party you ever went to?
Why was it special?
CULTURE TIP: Super Bowl fun facts

The Super Bowl is one of the most popular sporting
A What do you know about an event called the
events in the US. Here are some fun facts to tell
Super Bowl? Take the quiz and find out! Compare
your students:
your answers with a partner’s. Then check your
answers at the bottom of the page. 10 min
• In 2020, a 30-second TV commercial during the
With the class, brainstorm big sporting events
game cost over $5 million.
and write them on the board (for example, the
• Historically, the three most popular product
World Cup, the Olympics). If students say, Super
categories that advertise during the Super Bowl
Bowl, add it to the list; if they don’t, add it after
have been, 1. Automobiles, 2. Motion Pictures,
they have completed the quiz. Have students
3. Food & Candy.
read and choose the correct option for each item
in the quiz. Remind students to use the context
• In 2020, there were 27.6 million Twitter tweets
to try to guess the meaning of any new words. If
during the Super Bowl.
necessary, explain is held as a fixed expression
• The most popular and shared Super Bowl ad
to avoid presenting complex grammar to
was Volkswagen’s ad in 2011.
students. Assign students to pairs to compare
• The singer Katy Perry was the most watched
answers, then check answers with the class.
halftime act ever. In 2015, she had 118.5 million
viewers (three million more than the game).
MORE WORDS: Things at parties
• 1.4 billion chicken wings are eaten on Super
birthday girl or boy, birthday cake, candles
Bowl Sunday.
chips and salsa, football, salad, sandwich
host, hostess, gift, guest
EXTRA! Comparing celebrations 5–10 min
light show, spotlights
In pairs or individually, have students compare a
celebration they know with how the Super Bowl is
LANGUAGE TIP: Collocations with party
celebrated using a Venn diagram visual organizer.
Verbs: go to a party, crash a party, have a party,
Draw the Venn diagram on the board like this:
give a party, throw a party
Super Bowl Your celebration
Adjectives: big party, small party, boring party, fun
party, good party, noisy party, rowdy party, wild party

B Read the information about how people celebrate
the Super Bowl. Then match five of the words in
blue to the definitions below. One item has more
than one possible answer. 10 min
© National Geographic Learning
Give students a minute to read the text and then
ask them to summarize what people do at a
Super Bowl party. Next ask students to match the
words in blue to the definitions. Have individual
Then have students write in words about the two
students explain the meaning of the words in
celebrations. If two facts are the same, they go in
blue.
the middle. For example, if they bake a cake, then
they write that in the middle. If they don’t eat chips
and salsa, they write that in the Super Bowl part
C Complete the questions with words in blue from B.
only. Afterwards, students share their diagrams or
Then ask and answer the questions in pairs.
present them to the class.
10–15 min

Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson A | 92a

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 63 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 188 ────────

Students can do this as a short, prepared talk
LISTENING
rather than a conversation. Write this list of
prompts on the board:
WARM-UP 5 min
With books closed, say, Some parties are for
• Special day?
everyone, like a New Year’s Eve party or an office
• Where and when?
party. Others are for just one person, like a birthday
• Who for?
party. What other kinds of parties are given for just
one person? Make a list on the board.
• Age?
• What happens?
A Listen for gist. Two people are going to talk
Then, put students with the same topic in pairs to
about an important celebration in their country.
prepare what they’re going to say. They should
Read the sentence. Then listen and complete it.
not write out their talk and read it; they should
44 5–10 min
use the ideas on the board and write their ideas
One option is to play the audio once and ask
in note form. When pairs have finished, each
students to listen and say where the two speakers
student should find a new partner who prepared
are from. (Answer: El Salvador and Japan).
a different topic. Walk around as they work and
This gives them the chance to listen for simple
remind them to read, look up, and speak.
information and get used to the speakers. Then
Summarize. Summarizing involves students
read the main question in the book and play the
using their background knowledge of the topic
audio again. If students think they already know
and their knowledge of English to help them
the answer, they should listen to confirm it the
explain what they understood. It pushes students
second time they hear the audio.
to organize their ideas and express them
Listen for gist. Remind students that when
coherently so another person can understand.
listening for gist, they don’t need to worry
about understanding everything they hear; the
CULTURE TIP: Coming-of-age celebrations
purpose is to understand the general idea.
Many cultures have coming-of-age celebrations.
This is a useful skill for students to develop,
In Judaism, children have a bar mitzvah (for boys)
because in real life listening we often focus
or bat mitzvah (for girls). They recite parts of their
only on the general idea of something we
holy book (Torah) and have a large party. In many
are listening to because we don’t need to
Latin American countries, the Quinceañera is a
understand all the details.
big celebration held for a girl when she turns 15.
It is also called the Fiesta de Quince Años, or the
B Listen for details. Read the sentences below.
celebration of fifteen years of age. Often there is a
Then listen and check (✓) the correct celebration.
symbolic candle-lighting ceremony.
Some sentences are true for both celebrations.
45 10–15 min
D Make connections. Discuss the questions with a
Allow time for students to read through the
partner. 15 min
sentences and ask questions about any
vocabulary. Also draw their attention to the fact
Go over the directions with the class, then
that some of the sentences are pairs: a and b
give students a moment to think about their
are about age, e and g are about who it’s for, etc.
answers. Tell them to write a few notes. Provide
Play the audio two or three times, or until most
vocabulary as necessary. Assign students to
students have chosen the sentences.
pairs to share their answers and discuss their
celebrations. Remind them to ask follow-up
Listen for details. Remind students that when
questions to find out more. Monitor and provide
listening for details, they need to focus on key
help as necessary, prompting further discussion
words that will help them. As with listening for
by suggesting follow-up questions. Call on
gist above, this is a real-life listening skill; there
various students to tell the class about the
© National Geographic Learning
are things that we listen to with the purpose of
celebration their partner talked about.
understanding specific details, such as in a
lecture in college, announcements at an airport
Make connections. Making connections is a
or station, or a weather or stock market report.
way of summarizing information about one topic
(e.g., a type of celebration) and linking that topic
C Summarize. Choose one of the celebrations
to another topic from our own experience or
above. Use your answers from A and B to
background knowledge. It’s a useful technique
describe it to a partner. 15–20 min
for memory and it also starts to develop a
student’s ability to think critically.

93a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 64 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 189 ────────

LISTENING

A Listen for gist. Two people are going to talk about an important celebration in their country.
Read the sentence. Then listen and complete it. 44
c
Both speakers are talking about special days that celebrate .

a. getting a driver’s license    c. growing up
b. graduating from college    d. getting married

B Listen for details. Read the sentences below. Then listen and check (✓) the correct celebration.
Some sentences are true for both celebrations. 45

La Fiesta Rosa Coming of Age Day
✓
a. You are 20.
b. You are 15.
✓
c. It happens in Japan.
✓
d. It happens in El Salvador.
✓
e. It’s only for young women.
✓
f. You wear special clothes.
✓
✓
g. Everyone celebrates together on a day in January.
✓
h. There’s a ceremony at City Hall first.
✓
i. There’s a religious ceremony first.
✓
j. You get a gift or gifts.
✓    ✓
✓
k. There is a lot of food and dancing at a party.
l. You go with friends to different clubs and parties.
✓

C Summarize. Choose one of the celebrations above. Use your answers
ACADEMIC SKILL
from A and B to describe it to a partner.
Make connections
After you learn something
about another part of the
D Make connections. Discuss the questions with a partner.
world, make connections
1. Is there a similar celebration in your country?
with your own life and
country. This can help you
2. When does it happen, and what do people do on that day?
remember new things you
learn.

A group of 20-year-old women in traditional
kimonos celebrate Coming of Age Day in
Urayasu, Japan.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson A | 93

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 65 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 190 ────────

Have you ever been to a
costume party? If so, what
costume did you wear?

SPEAKING

A Listen to the conversation. Then answer the
Lane: OK, then. I’d love to go. When exactly is it?
questions with a partner. 46
Omar: On Saturday night.
Omar: Hey, Lane. My classmate Sayuri is having
Lane: Wow, that’s the day after tomorrow! I
a party this weekend.
need to get a costume.
Lane: Really?
Omar: Me, too. There’s a good place near here
Omar: Yeah, it’s a costume party.
that rents them. Let’s go there after school.
Lane: Sounds like fun.
Lane: Sounds good!
Omar: Do you want to go with me?
1. Omar is going to a party. What kind of party
is it? How does Omar invite Lane?
Lane: Are you sure? I don’t really know Sayuri.
A costume party. He says, “Do you want to go with me?”
2. Does Lane accept? What does she say?
Omar: No problem. She said I could invite a
Yes. She says, “I’d love to go.”
friend.

B PRONUNCIATION: Reduced want to Listen and complete the conversation. Notice the
pronunciation of want to. Then practice the conversation with a partner. 47
What want to
A: do you do this weekend?
Do    want to
B: I don’t know. Maybe see that new sci-fi movie. you come with me?
want to
A: Sorry, but I don’t really see that movie.

C Practice the conversation in A
SPEAKING STRATEGY 48
with a partner.
Inviting someone to do
Accepting or refusing an invitation
something
D Write four invitations using the
Sure, I’d love to.
activities and times in the box
Do you want    That sounds great.
to go
below. Use the expressions in
Would you like    I’m sorry, but I can’t. I have plans.
with me?
the Speaking Strategy to help
How’d you like    Unfortunately, I can’t. I have to work.
© National Geographic Learning
I’d love to, but I’m busy (then / that day).
you.
When refusing an invitation, it’s polite to give a simple explanation.

come to a party study together after class tomorrow
see a movie your idea: this weekend tonight

We have an English test this Friday.
E Take turns inviting a partner to the events in D.
How’d you like to study for it after class?
Refuse two of your partner’s invitations. Give a
I’d love to, but . . .
simple explanation.

94 | UNIT 7

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 66 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 191 ────────

C Practice the conversation in A with a partner.
SPEAKING
10 min
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Play the audio sentence by sentence, with
students repeating. Model the longer sentences
Ask students to look at the photo of the people in
in parts until students can repeat them
costumes at the top of the page and read the two
completely. Then have students practice the
questions. Invite students to talk about any costume
conversation in pairs twice, swapping roles the
parties they have been to and what they wore.
second time.
The costumes in the photo are probably from a
Halloween party, but students may have also worn
costumes for parties at other times of the year; for
TEACHING TIP: Stand and deliver
example, for carnival or at New Year.
If your students’ energy level falls during class,
energize the class by telling them to stand and face
each other for a practice conversation. Holding their
CULTURE TIP: Costume and fancy dress
books, they should use the “read-look up-speak”
Fancy dress in British English means the same as
technique, making eye contact with their partner. If
costume in American English. In American English,
they are able to recite the conversation without the
fancy dress could mean formal clothes. Check
book, this is even more energizing.
before you go! Costume parties are popular in both
the United States and the United Kingdom on dates
such as Halloween and New Year’s Eve.
D Write four invitations using the activities and
times in the box below. Use the expressions in
the Speaking Strategy to help you. 10–15 min
A Listen to the conversation. Then answer the
Read the expressions in the Speaking Strategy.
questions with a partner. 46 10–15 min
Choose one student to read the invitations aloud
With books closed, you could write the questions
and five students to read the answers. Remind
on the board, or dictate them for students to
students to use the reduced pronunciation
write. Then play the audio. Tell students to write
of want to and would you. Then point out the
down Omar’s and Lane’s exact words, one
information in the box and have students
sentence for each. Have students compare their
write their four invitations. Monitor and help as
answers with a partner’s, then play the audio
necessary.
again as students read the conversation in their
books. Check answers with the class.
E Take turns inviting a partner to the events in D.
Refuse two of your partner’s invitations. Give a
B PRONUNCIATION: Reduced want to Listen
simple explanation. 10–15 min
and complete the conversation. Notice the
Students should review the refusals in the
pronunciation of want to. Then practice the
Speaking Strategy. With the class, brainstorm
conversation with a partner. 47 10 min
a list of other excuses for refusing an invitation.
Have students read the conversation. Then play
Write these on the board. Assign students
the audio and have them write the missing words.
to pairs to practice. Monitor and help with
Play the audio again and have students repeat
pronunciation. Ask one or two pairs to
the conversation. Help students notice how want
demonstrate the conversation for the class.
to is reduced and sounds like wanna, / wan /,
Students can switch partners for more practice.
and that in normal speech, the verb that follows
want to receives the stress, not want to (wanna).
CULTURE TIP: Saying no or maybe to an
Point out that, as with gonna, it is not written that
invitation
way. Students should always write want to. Have
students practice the conversation with a partner.
When refusing an invitation in the UK, the US,
Canada, Australia, and New Zealand, a specific
excuse (e.g., I have a test the next day.) sounds
PRONUNCIATION TIP: Reduced forms
© National Geographic Learning
more sincere than a general one (I have plans). In
Sometimes, students mistakenly think that reduced
fact, a very weak or general excuse is sometimes a
forms such as wanna or gonna are only used in
way to say that you are not interested in the person.
informal speech or only in American English and not
On the other hand, sometimes you would like to go,
in British English. This is not true. Reduced forms
but are not sure that you can. In that case, you can
are a common feature of natural everyday speech
say, Can I get back to you? or I’m not sure I can.
in many different Englishes.
I need to check my schedule.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson A | 94a

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 67 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 192 ────────

sentence from 1–8. The student with their book
GRAMMAR
closed has to give a correct response.
WARM-UP 5 min
To introduce the form in this lesson, ask a few
C Complete the sentences. Make them true for you.
students a variety of questions that will elicit positive
5 min
and negative answers that you can then agree with
Have students work alone on this exercise, which
using phrases like, So do I / Me, too, or Neither do I /
is preparation for the task in D. They should
Me, neither.
choose a word in bold that makes the sentence
true for them. If they don’t think either option
For positive questions, you could ask:
is quite correct, they can make any changes
Do you speak English?
they want to. For example, with item 1, they
could rewrite it, adding an adverb of frequency
Are you from [name of student’s country]?
like this: Sometimes I like to stay home on the
Do you like a good party?
weekend.
Students will (hopefully) answer, Yes, I do or Yes,
I am. Then you add a phrase like So do I or Me, too.
D Compare your opinions in C with a partner’s.
10 min
To elicit negative answers, ask questions that are
Assign pairs and have students take turns
likely to get a negative response, such as:
reading their sentences aloud and responding.
Do you speak Hawaiian?
Monitor the conversations carefully and focus
on correcting any of the responses where
Are you from Canada?
necessary. Students can repeat the exercise a
Do you hate going to parties?
couple more times by switching partners.

EXPANSION: Find someone the same
A Read the Unit 7, Lesson A Grammar Reference
as you 10 min
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below. 20–30 min
Have students write five more statements about
things they like, enjoy doing, and / or are good
Go over the examples in the chart. Elicit
at. This is more fun if the things are unusual or if
more examples by saying statements that
most people don’t like them. Give a few examples
are meaningful to students for them to agree
to get them started: I love opera! I really enjoy
or disagree with; for example, I have English
doing laundry. I’m pretty good at fixing cars. When
class on Mondays, I don’t speak German. Have
they’re ready, they should stand up with their
students complete the exercises on page 198.
papers, walk around, and say their statements to
Alternatively, you could have students complete
different classmates. They should say, not read, the
the exercises for homework the day before and
statements. When they find someone who likes the
check understanding during class. The grammar
same thing, they should write the person’s name
charts on pages 197–198 include further
next to the statement. To follow up, ask students to
examples and explanations on when to use each
report something interesting they heard.
form, expanding on the information in the chart
on page 95.
ONLINE OPTION
PRONUNCIATION TIP: Either and neither
If you are teaching online, adapt the previous
exercise by inviting students to write their sentences
Either and neither can both be pronounced in two
in the chat and having other students respond to
different ways:
them.
/’aɪðər/ or /’iðər/ and /’naɪðər/ or /’niðər/. Both are
correct.
TEACHING TIP: Vocabulary one-on-one
© National Geographic Learning
Personal interactions with their instructor can be
B Match each statement with the correct response.
a powerful motivator for students. For this reason,
10 min
accustom students to asking you for vocabulary
Tell students to read the sentences and decide
help during conversations with partners. In a large
which are positive and negative. After they have
class, to distribute your attention more evenly, go
matched them, students can compare their
to a different part of the classroom each time. Tell
answers in pairs. Students could also practice
students to put the words you give them in their
saying the statements and responses in pairs.
vocabulary notebooks.
For further freer practice, one student can close
their book while the other student reads any

95a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 68 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 193 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 7, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do the
exercises below.

AGREEING WITH OTHER PEOPLE’S STATEMENTS: SO, TOO, NEITHER, AND EITHER

Affirmative Negative

I’m going to Emi’s party.    I’m not going to Emi’s party.
With be
So am I. / I am, too. / Me, too.    Neither am I. / I’m not either. / Me neither.

With other I have a costume for the party.    I don’t have a costume for the party.
verbs    So do I. / I do, too. / Me, too.    Neither do I. / I don’t either. / Me neither.

i Me, too and me
B Match each statement with the correct response.
neither are common
f
1. I’m having a party this weekend. a. Neither was I.
in casual spoken
conversation.
a
2. Sandra wasn’t at the party last night. b. Neither did I.
d
3. I bought a present for Yukio. c. So do we.
e
4. I was so tired this morning. d. So did I.
b
5. I didn’t have a good time at the party. e. I was, too.
h
6. I don’t like costume parties. f. So am I.
c
7. In my country, we have a big party for g. I’m not either.
a teenager’s fifteenth birthday.    h. Neither do I.
g
8. I’m not going to Diana’s party.

C Complete the sentences. Make them true for you.
1. I like / don’t like to stay home on the weekend.
2. I like / don’t like to talk during class.
3. I need / don’t need to study harder.
4. I think / don’t think big parties are fun.
5. I’m good at / not good at remembering new vocabulary.
6. I finished / didn’t finish my homework last night.
7. I’m going to / not going to apply to college in the future.
8. In my country, we usually / never have a cake on someone’s birthday.

D Compare your opinions in C with a partner’s.

I like to stay home on    I like to stay home on
© National Geographic Learning
the weekend.    the weekend.

So do I. What do    Really? I don’t. I like to
you like to do?    go out with my friends.

Play games on
my computer.

Lesson A | 95

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 69 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 194 ────────

Around the world,
people light candles on
birthday cakes, make
wishes, and blow the
candles out.

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Plan a party with a partner. Choose an item from each category or think of an idea of your own.
Type of party
a. a costume party b. a pool party    c. a birthday party    d. your idea:

Place
a. a friend’s house b. a nightclub    c. a park    d. your idea:

Type of food
a. finger foods b. barbecue c. pizza    d. your idea:

B Stand up and invite four other pairs to your party. Ask and answer questions about each other’s
parties and make notes in the invitations below.

Would you like to come to    It’s a surprise birthday party for
our party next week?    Antonio. He turns 22 next Friday.
What kind of
party is it?

Type of party:    Type of party:
Place:    Place:
Food:    Food:

Type of party:    Type of party:
Place:    Place:
Food:    Food:

I really like the surprise
birthday party.
C Discuss the parties in B with your partner. What do you think of each one?
Choose your favorite.
So do I. The
costume party
© National Geographic Learningsounds fun, too.
D Go back to each pair from B and either accept or refuse their invitation.
We’d love to come
7A GOALS Now I can . . .
to the surprise
birthday party!
1. Yes, I can.
Make and respond to invitations
I’m sorry, but we
2. Mostly, yes.
can’t come to the
Agree with someone
costume party.
3. Not yet.
We have plans.

96 | UNIT 7

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 70 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 195 ────────

follow-up questions; for example, What kind of
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
music / decorations / games will there be?
WARM-UP 5–10 min
With books closed, write the following on the board
LARGE CLASS OPTION
(taken from page 96):
Rather than asking students to stand and walk
around, put students into groups of ten in a circle.
• Type of party?
Then have them work within their circle of ten.
• Place?
If this is impractical, students can work on their
• Type of food?
own (without a partner) and then meet four other
individual students.
• What else?

Explain to the class that you want to start planning
the end-of-the-year party for the class. Invite
C Discuss the parties in B with your partner. What
students to suggest what type of party it might be.
do you think of each one? Choose your favorite.
Then ask for suggestions about the place, type of
10 min
food, and other ideas. Write the suggestions next
With their original partners, students should
to each of the questions on the board. The main
look at the information they wrote on the four
aim is to get students thinking of the vocabulary
invitations. They can discuss the parties and
they will need for the rest of the lesson. Leave the
decide which one will probably be the most fun.
suggestions on the board to help students with A.
Each pair should then report their choice to the
class and explain their reasons.
A Plan a party with a partner. Choose an item from
each category or think of an idea of your own.
D Go back to each pair from B and either accept or
15 min
refuse their invitation. 10–15 min
In pairs or small groups of three, students should
This exercise recycles and practices the
make plans for their party. They can use the
language from the Speaking Strategy on page 94.
ideas on the page or create their own ideas.
Have students move around again and invite
Also refer them back to the ideas on the board
each other to their parties. If students refuse
from the Warm-Up. If some pairs finish early,
invitations, remind them to be polite and give a
encourage them to add ideas and details such
reason for not going (e.g., I’m sorry but I can’t.
as the date and the time it starts and ends, type
I have an exam the morning after.). Alternatively,
of music and decorations, and any party games.
students could work in pairs only and use the
information they wrote down in B to practice
inviting each other to the different types of parties.
CULTURE TIP: Fingers or forks

In many countries around the world, including
Diagnostics
India, Ghana, the Philippines, and Afghanistan,
Check students’ competencies as follows:
it’s customary to eat most things with your fingers,
• Are students able to talk about parties?
but only with the right hand. In Italy, utensils (knife,
fork, spoon) are used for almost everything, and
• Can they ask questions about parties?
in Japan, chopsticks are the norm. In the United
• Are they able to invite someone and accept or
States, many things are eaten with the fingers that
refuse the invitation?
would not be acceptable in Europe or Japan. In
casual eating—especially on the street, which is
very common—almost anything can be eaten with
7A
GOALS
the fingers unless it makes a mess. Good manners
Review students’ self-assessment in the
require utensils for most things at the table.
goals box. Point out to students where
they learned these skills in the unit. If they
© National Geographic Learning
B Stand up and invite four other pairs to your party.
rated their ability below Yes, I can, they can
Ask and answer questions about each other’s
turn back to those pages and review the
parties and make notes in the invitations below.
exercises.
10–15 min
Make and respond to invitations: Speaking,
Students can walk around the classroom in
page 94, A–E; Active English, page 96,
pairs, inviting their classmates to their party. The
B and D
invited pair should ask at least three questions
Agree with someone: Grammar, page 95,
to complete one of their invitations. The hosts
A–D
of the party should give additional information
with every answer. Encourage students to ask

Lesson Planner UNIT 7, Lesson A | 96a

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 71 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 196 ────────

TEACHING TIP: Reading aloud
7B FESTIVALS AND HOLIDAYS
In recent years in English language teaching,
having students read a text aloud in class has
VOCABULARY
been questioned and many teachers avoid it. One
argument is that it isn’t very authentic or something
WARM-UP 10 min
we do in everyday life. Another is that it means
Introduce the topic of international festivals with a
that students worry about understanding every
quiz. Have students work together in small teams.
single word and being able to pronounce every
Read the names of six festivals aloud and have
word. However, reading aloud can build a student’s
students guess the country. The team with the most
confidence if, for example, it is done in pairs rather
correct countries is the winner. You can also tell
than in front of a whole class. It can give confidence
students about the festivals using the information in
with pronunciation and, in fact, it is authentic
the Culture Tip below, or students can research them
because we do read texts aloud sometimes (e.g.,
for homework.
reading stories, giving a short report or lecture).
Cannes Film Festival (France)
Make sure the texts are short and include target
language that you want students to practice so that
Day of the Dead (Mexico)
they see the purpose.
Montreal International Jazz Festival (Canada)

Oktoberfest (Germany)
B Match the correct forms of the words in blue to
the definitions. 10–15 min
South by Southwest (United States)
Go over the words in the Word Bank and have
The Perfume Festival (Vietnam)
students repeat them. You could also ask them
to underline the stressed syllable in each word
CULTURE TIP: Festivals around the world
form as it changes: compete, competition,
competitor, participate, participation, participant,
• The Cannes Film Festival is the world’s oldest
perform, performance, performer. Then have
film festival.
students complete the sentences with words
• The Day of the Dead festival is an ancient
from the text and from the Word Bank. Check the
celebration to remember family and friends who
answers together as a class.
have died.
• The Montreal International Jazz Festival is the
EXTRA! Create a quiz 10–15 min
largest jazz festival in the world.
For more practice with the vocabulary in A and B,
• Oktoberfest takes place in Munich, with over
put students into pairs or small teams of three. Have
six million people drinking beer, eating, and
groups choose ten words and write a sentence
listening to music.
using each word; for example, Two teams compete
• South by Southwest has music, film, and an
in a game of soccer. / In our country, New Year
interactive conference for emerging technology.
always takes place on January 1st.
When each team is ready, have them join another
• The Perfume Festival takes place at the Perfume
team. Have teams take turns reading their
Pagoda in Hanoi.
sentences aloud but leaving out the important word
or words by saying “BEEP.” For example, Two teams
BEEP in a game of soccer. / In our country, New
A Take turns reading the information about the
Year always BEEP BEEP on January 1st. The other
festival aloud with a partner. 10 min
team has to guess the missing word to win a point.
Have students look at the picture and describe
what they can see and what they think is
happening. Assign students to pairs to read
C Cover the information about the festival. Ask and
the text aloud. Tell them to pay attention to the
answer the questions with a partner. 10–15 min
words in blue and try to work out their meaning
© National Geographic Learning
Have students cover the profile in A about
from the context. After students have finished
the festival of the Sahara. Then go over the
reading, ask some comprehension questions;
questions with the class. Alternatively, with
for example, How long is the festival? What
students’ books closed, write the questions on
animals can you see there? Can you listen to
the board or dictate them. Then assign students
music at the festival? What activities can you
to new pairs to talk about the festival. Monitor
do there? (These questions can be asked to
and help as necessary. Call on individual
the whole class or written on the board / on a
students to share their answers.
handout / projected for students to answer with
their partner.)

97a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 72 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 197 ────────

7B FESTIVALS AND HOLIDAYS

VOCABULARY

A Take turns reading the information about the festival aloud with a partner.

The International Festival of the Sahara takes place in December for four days in Douz, a town
in Tunisia near the Sahara Desert. Thousands of people gather to celebrate the traditions of the
desert people.

Events
• Watch people compete in games to win prizes. • Local musicians and DJs from around the world
Be sure to see one of the horse or camel races.    perform every night.

• Love words? Don’t miss the festival’s poetry    • Participate in activities outside of Douz. Visit the
competition.    dunes (large sand hills) for sand skiing.

B Match the correct forms of the words in blue to the definitions.
1. To play a game or other activity and try to be the
compete
 WORD BANK
best:
Verb Noun Noun (person)
2. A type of activity (running, driving) that you try to be
race
the fastest in:
compete competition competitor

participate participation participant
3. To sing, dance, or play music in front of others:
perform
perform performance performer
gather
4. To come together in a group:
take place
5. To happen:
prize
6. Something (like money) given to the winner of a game or activity:
participate
7. To join in and do something together with others:
traditions
8. Customs or ways of doing something for a long time:

C Cover the information about the festival. Ask and answer the questions with a partner.
1. Where and when does the festival take place? 2. What happens at the festival?
In Douz, Tunisia for four days in December People celebrate the traditions of the desert
people. They compete in games, races, and a
poetry competition. Local musicians and DJs
perform.
A traditional show of horseback
riding at the International
Festival of the Sahara

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 97

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 73 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 198 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5 min
Ask students if their country
(or countries) has any festivals
that take place in just one town.
What happens at the festival? Do
tourists go, or just local people?

A Make predictions. Read the
title and look at the photo. What
do you think happens at this
festival? Tell a partner. 5 min
Have students read the title.
Check that they understand the
word messy (meaning dirty or
untidy). Then elicit vocabulary
to describe the photo and what
happens at the festival of Holi
in the photo. Write students’
ideas on the board. In
particular, this photo provides a
chance to revise, recycle, and
GET READY TO
extend students’ vocabulary
for talking about colors. As well
GET MESSY
as using the colors themselves
to describe the photo (red,
and gives them candy. After that, the orange
The Orange Festival
green, yellow, purple, etc.),
fight begins! To participate, you need to join
It’s a cool February afternoon in the small
you can also introduce terms
a team—you can be on a team of “freedom
town of Ivrea, in Northern Italy. The streets are
like light / dark green or words
fighters” or soldiers. If you don’t want to fight,
usually quiet, but today they’re full of people
to describe the colors such as
you must wear a red hat. Then no one will
as the four-day Orange Festival begins. The
rich / vibrant.
throw oranges at you. When the fighting ends,
“Carnevale di Ivrea” is over 900 years old. It
there are oranges everywhere!
celebrates the story of a girl named Violetta.
Make predictions. Remind
She killed the town’s evil1 leader and freed2
students that having an idea
The Festival of Color
the people of Ivrea. The festival remembers
The Festival of Color, also called Holi, is a popular
about the topic before they
the fight that took place between the people
spring celebration from India. It takes place every
read will help them be more
of Ivrea and the evil leader’s soldiers. In
year, usually in early or mid-March, and lasts
the original fight, people threw rocks at the
prepared for the text and
at least two days. In Indian mythology,3 an evil
soldiers. Today, participants throw oranges at
therefore likely to understand
woman tried to kill a young man named Prahlad
each other. Before they start, a young woman
more when they read. By
by burning him in a fire. Because Prahlad was a
dressed as Violetta speaks to the people
making predictions based on
good person, he escaped4 from the fire unhurt.
available information, they
98 | UNIT 7
activate prior knowledge and
language related to the topic.

TEACHING TIP: Guessing
B Read for details. Work with a
students read their section and
before reading
partner. Answer questions 1–3
answer the questions.
Students may appreciate an
about your festival only. 10 min
explanation of why they are
Read for details. Remind
© National Geographic Learning
Go over the questions with the
asked to do this. Explain that it
students that they can
class, then assign students
is perfectly fine if their guesses
understand details without
to A–B pairs. Make sure that
are incorrect. The point is not
understanding everything in
they understand that they are
to get the answers right, but
a text. Tell them to underline
only going to read about one
to help them when they start
words they don’t understand,
festival, and their partner will
reading. Guessing ensures that
but only try to guess their
read about the other. Point
they already have some ideas
meaning if they are related to
out the footnotes and remind
about the text, so the information
the details they are looking for.
students to try to guess new
makes more sense, and it’s
words from the context. Have
easier to figure out unfamiliar
vocabulary.

98 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 74 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 199 ────────

C Ask your partner the questions
in B about his or her festival.
A Make predictions. Read the title and look
Then read about the festival.
at the photo. What do you think happens at
Check your partner’s answers.
this festival? Tell a partner.
10 min
B Read for details. Work with a partner.
Have students ask each
People throw colorful
Answer questions 1–3 about your
powder during Holi.
other the questions and write
festival only.
down their partner’s answers
Student A: Read about the Orange
about the other festival. They
Festival.
should then read about the
Student B: Read about the Festival
other festival and check their
of Color.
partner’s answers. Afterwards,
1. Where and when does it take place?
Ivrea, Italy in February / India in early or mid-March
check the answers with the
2. What is the purpose of the festival? What
event does it celebrate?
It celebrates the old story of
whole class.
Violetta who killed the town’s evil leader and freed the people.
3. What do people do at the festival?
They join teams and throw oranges at each other. / They
throw colored powder and water in the air and at each other.
TEACHING TIP: Jigsaw reading
C Ask your partner the questions in B about
his or her festival. Then read about the
A jigsaw reading is when two or
festival. Check your partner’s answers.
Additional answers: Ex. B, 2. It remembers the story of
more students read different texts
Prahlad and celebrates the start of spring and a new beginning.
and then provide each other with
D Categorize information. What festival is
each sentence about? Write O for Orange
information about them (as in B
Festival or H for Holi. Write B if both
and C). It’s often more motivating
answers are possible.
than only reading a text and
H
1. It’s celebrated in the spring.
answering questions because
B
2. It’s about an old story.
it also involves speaking and
B
3. It celebrates good over evil.
classmates encouraging each
B
4. You throw things at other people.
other to share the information.
O
5. You need to join a team.
H
6. The day before, people
light a fire.
Today, people remember this event by lighting
ONLINE OPTION
B
7. The celebration lasts more than
large fires in the streets on the night before Holi.
Jigsaw reading can also work
one day.
The fire is a symbol5 of the end of all bad things.
O
online. You can screenshare the
8. Wearing a red hat means you
The next day, Holi celebrates the start of spring
don’t want to participate.
text for students to read or they
and a new beginning. To celebrate, people gather
B
9. The festival remembers a good
in the streets, and when they throw colored
can read in their own books. Then
person from the past.
powder into the air, they say, “Holi Hai!” Others
you need to assign the pairs and
H
10. The festival is in the photo.
throw colored water or powder at each other.
send them into breakout rooms
After the festival ends, the streets are filled with
so they can ask and answer their
E Answer the questions with a partner.
color and smiles! 49
questions about what they read.
1. Imagine you can go to Holi or the
1Something evil is very bad.
When they come back, briefly
Orange Festival. Which one do you want
2To free someone means to release them from something
to go to? Why?
bad.
check all the answers together
3Mythology is a collection of very old traditional stories.
2. Think of a traditional festival in your
as a class.
4If you escape from something bad, you get away
country and answer the questions in B
from it.
5A symbol is something that represents something else.
about it.
For example, a heart shape is a symbol of love.

D Categorize information.
Lesson B | 99
What festival is each sentence
about? Write O for Orange
Festival or H for Holi. Write B if
both answers are possible.
EXTRA! Discussion
other, as well as to the main
10–15 min
questions 10 min
topics of the article.
Students may be able to
1. Are there any old, traditional
answer all or most of these
© National Geographic Learning
E Answer the questions with a
festivals in your country? What
questions without reading
partner. 10–15 min
are they? Are they important to
again. Tell them to answer what
the culture? Why or why not?
Go over the questions with
they can and then scan the
the class. Give students a few
2. Are there any new festivals in
text for the missing answers.
minutes to think about their
your country? What are they?
Check answers with the class.
answers and note down a few
What, if anything, do they add
ideas, then assign them to
Categorize information.
to life?
pairs to answer the questions.
By putting information into
3. Do you have a favorite festival?
Monitor and provide help as
categories, students can begin
Why do you like it so much? If
necessary. Compare answers
to see how facts relate to each
you don’t have a favorite, why
as a class.
don’t you?

Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson B | 99

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 75 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 200 ────────

LISTENING

A Listen for the main idea. Listen to a news report from Cameroon and answer the
questions. 50

a running race
1. What type of competition is it?
2. Is it difficult? Why or why not?
Yes, because it’s a 38-km race up and down the highest
mountain in western Africa, which is also an active volcano.
a big party, a festival during the weekend of the race
3. What is the town getting ready for?

B Listen for details. Listen again and complete the notes about the event. 50
February
1. When the event takes place: every year, usually in
550
2. Number of participants this year:
38
3. Distance: kilometers
mountain / volcano
4. What the competitors do: They run up a and then back down.
16,000
5. Prize: over $
music, dancing, sports,
and local food
6. Other events: During the weekend, there’s also a festival with .

C Imagine you and a partner work for an advertising agency. You are helping the
government of Cameroon tell the world about this special event. Create a print or
video advertisement for the event. Use your notes from A and B.

D Share your advertisement with two other pairs. Which one is the best? Why?

Jenevarius Bongkiyung,
who won the Mount
Cameroon Race of Hope
in 2007, holds one of his
prizes.

© National Geographic Learning

100 | UNIT 7

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 76 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 201 ────────

B Listen for details. Listen again and complete the
LISTENING
notes about the event. 50 10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Read through the notes with the class and ask
students to say the type of information they need
Ask students to look at the photo and caption. Ask
to listen for, such as a month in 1, a number in
one or two students to say what the man has won
2, 3, and 5, and so on. Then play the audio and
and ask if they know where Cameroon is. Also
give students time to write their answers. Play
explain that he has a won a prize and the prize is
the audio again. Have students compare their
called a trophy. Next, ask if anyone in the class
answers with a partner’s. Check answers with
(or anyone they know) has ever participated as a
the class.
runner in a big race. Ask, Where was it? How long
was the race? Why did you / they run? Did you /
Listen for details. Remind students that even
they win a prize or a trophy?
when listening for details they don’t need to
understand every word they hear. They should
LANGUAGE TIP: Mt., Mount, Mountain
focus on key words that will help them.
Mt. is the abbreviation of Mount. It’s the first
word in the names of many mountains: Mt. Fuji,
C Imagine you and a partner work for an
Mt. Kilimanjaro, Mt. Everest. In writing, it is
advertising agency. You are helping the
abbreviated. Mt. never comes at the end of the
government of Cameroon tell the world about
name. In that case, Mountain is used, as in Bear
this special event. Create a print or video
Mountain, and the Rocky Mountains.
advertisement for the event. Use your notes from
A and B. 15–20 min
Go over the directions with the class and ask
A Listen for the main idea. Listen to a news report
what kind of information needs to go in this
from Cameroon and answer the questions.
advertisement. Assign students to pairs to create
50 10 min
their ad. Depending on resources, students
Based on the discussion in the Warm-Up,
can create the print ads using paper and pens,
students can try to guess the answers to the
drawing images, etc., or they may create it using
three questions before listening. Give them
laptops or tablets.
time to do this. Next, play the audio so they
can check and complete their answers. Have
For a video ad, it’s useful to have students
students compare their answers with a partner’s.
prepare their notes by creating two columns on
Then play the recording again and check
a page and writing what the video will show and
answers with the class.
what one will hear at each stage of the ad, like
this:
Listen for the main idea. Remind students that
listening for the main idea means to focus on
What you will see What you will hear
the key idea of what they are listening to, without
worrying about specific details.

Students need only plan their video to complete
TEACHING TIP: Developing student awareness
this exercise, but depending on resources
of listening text types
available, students could also make their video
A listening text type means the category of a
afterwards. Monitor and help with language and
listening and its purpose; for example, the listening
ideas as necessary.
text type might be a social conversation, a lecture,
a radio broadcast, a quiz show, or a podcast. If
students know the text type in advance, they can
D Share your advertisement with two other pairs.
prepare themselves for what they are going to
Which one is the best? Why? 10 min
listen to. For example, in A, the instructions say it
Join three pairs to make groups of six and have
is a news report so, based on this information, you
students share their advertisements. If they have
could ask your students, How many people do you
© National Geographic Learning
made a print advertisement, they can show their
think will speak in the news report? Who do you
ideas and explain them. If they have planned a
think will speak? They should be able to predict
video, they can describe what happens in the
that they will probably hear one news reporter
video based on their notes. If students go on to
talking and maybe one or two people being
make the videos for homework, then either set
interviewed. Using clues like this before listening
aside class time to show them or, if you teach
is especially useful to develop as a preparation
online, students could upload and share links to
strategy for exams that have listening questions.
their videos.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson B | 100a

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 77 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 202 ────────

bottom of the page. This is a good option if your
GRAMMAR
students are comfortable with time clauses and
if the energy in the classroom needs a boost.
WARM-UP 5 min
Alternatively, if you think your students need more
With books closed, ask what holidays students
controlled practice before speaking, ask them to
know. List them on the board. Ask, How is a holiday
write out five new sentences using before, after,
different from a festival? (Usually one day vs.
or when. For example, After Paloma and her
several, usually celebrated at home vs. in public.)
brothers get up, the family gathers in the living
room. / Paloma and her brothers get up before
A Read the Unit 7, Lesson B Grammar Reference
the family gathers in the living room.
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below. 20–30 min
LANGUAGE TIP: Commas with time clauses
Go over the sentences in the chart and help
When the time clause is first, there is a comma
students notice how before, after, and when
after it and before the main clause. When the main
identify the sequence of actions. For each
clause is first, no comma is used. (Remind students
example in the chart, you can ask conceptthat a clause has a subject and a verb; a sentence
check questions like:
may have more than one clause.)
• Which happens first? Violetta speaks or The
festival starts? (Answer: Violetta speaks)
C Think of a holiday you know. What happens on
• Which happened last? The party ended or
this day? Use after, before, and when to describe
The people went home. (Answer: The people
the day’s events. Tell a partner. 10–15 min
went home)
Model the exercise by describing a holiday
• Do you say “Holi Hai!” before, after, or at
students are familiar with. Then give students a
the same time that you throw the powder?
moment to write a few notes about the holiday
(Answer: At the same time)
they’re going to tell their partner about. Remind
them to just write notes, not full sentences. Assign
Have students complete the exercises on
students to pairs to describe the day’s events for
page 199. Alternatively, you could have students
the holiday they chose. Encourage students to
complete the exercises for homework the day
ask follow-up questions to keep the conversation
before and check understanding during class.
going. Monitor and help with vocabulary as
The grammar chart on page 199 includes further
necessary. Call on various students to describe
examples and explanations on when to use each
the holiday their partner told them about.
word, expanding on the information in the chart
on page 101.
TEACHING OPTION: Written work
If your students need more controlled practice with
TEACHING TIP: Concept-Check Questions (CCQ)
time clauses, tell them to write out the sentences. You
can let students decide which sentences to combine.
When you present a grammar point in a chart,
In that case, answers may vary considerably and it
it’s easy to talk through it and then ask everyone
will be difficult to correct them in class. However, you
in the class, Do you understand? Students can
can collect the papers to correct individually.
only answer yes or no, and the problem with that
question is that students don’t necessarily know if
they understand the grammar or if they understand
CULTURE TIP: More holidays
it correctly. But with a concept-check question
(CCQ), you can also check their understanding.
Eid ul Fitr – Muslim holiday celebrating the end of
Ramadan, the month of fasting

Christmas – Christian holiday celebrating the birth
B Look at the photo. Then read about Paloma’s
of Jesus
activities on Three Kings’ Day. With a partner,
© National Geographic Learning
combine the different sentences using before,
Passover – Jewish holiday remembering the story of
after, and when. Multiple answers are possible.
the Exodus, when the ancient Israelites were freed
10–15 min
from slavery
Ask the class to look at the photo and read
Halloween – American holiday, originally religious, for
about Three Kings’ Day. If you have any students
children and adults to dress up at night in costumes,
from Spanish-speaking countries, they might
ask neighbors for treats, and be mischievous
know and celebrate this day, so ask them to
Valentine’s Day – American holiday to recognize
provide more details about what they normally
love, especially romantic love. There are similar
do on that day. Then tell everyone to read what
holidays in other countries; in many it is principally
Paloma does on that day. The exercise can be
about family love or friendship.
done orally as suggested by the example at the

101a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 78 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 203 ────────

In Spain and many Latin American
countries, January 6 is Three Kings’
Day. To celebrate, people often eat rosca
de reyes, a special sweet bread.

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 7, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

TIME CLAUSES WITH BEFORE, AFTER, WHEN

Time clause Main clause

Before the festival starts, Violetta speaks.
After the party ended, we went home.
When you throw powder in the air, you say, “Holi Hai!”
Main clause Time clause

Violetta speaks before the festival starts.
We went home after the party ended.
You say, “Holi Hai!” when you throw powder in the air.

B Look at the photo. Then read about Paloma’s activities on Three Kings’ Day. With a partner,
combine the different sentences using before, after, and when. Multiple answers are possible.

January 5
9:00 pm Paloma and her family go to the Three Kings’ Parade.

January 6
7:00 am Paloma’s younger brothers get up.
7:00 am They wake Paloma up.
7:15 am The family gathers in the living room.
7:20 am They open presents.
8:00 am Everyone relaxes and enjoys the morning.
11:00 am Paloma and her mom prepare lunch.
2:00 pm Paloma’s grandparents arrive at her house. Everyone has lunch.
© National Geographic Learning3:00 pm The family eats a special sweet bread called rosca de reyes.
3:30 pm The adults talk, and the children play games.

When Paloma’s brothers
get up, they . . .

C Think of a holiday you know. What happens on this day? Use after, before,
and when to describe the day’s events. Tell a partner.

Lesson B | 101

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 79 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 204 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
Clean Your Desk Day
(Second Monday in
A Look at the photos of three special days. Then ask and answer
January)
the questions with a partner.

1. What do you think happens on each day?
2. Which one(s) would you like to celebrate? Why?

B With your partner, use the questions below to invent an
unusual holiday.

• What is the name of the    • What do people do on the
National Pet Day
holiday?    holiday?
(April 11th)
• When does it take place?    • What do people wear?
• What is the reason for the    • Are there any special foods
holiday?    or decorations?

• Who celebrates it?    • Do people celebrate it at
home or out somewhere?

C Take turns presenting your unusual holidays to the class and
taking notes. Then, as a class, decide which of the holidays
you would like to celebrate every year.
World Tourism
Day (September
27th)
D Turn to the Unit 7 Writing appendix and read the text. Then
answer the questions with a partner.

1. Is the person writing about a festival or holiday?
a holiday
2. What is it called?
Chuseok
3. Where and when does it happen?
Korea, in September or early October
A day or two before, they make
4. What do people do, and when?
traditional food. On the morning of Chuseok, they have a ceremony to remember
their ancestors. After that, they have a big meal and give gifts. In the evening,
they have a nice dinner and play games or watch TV.
E WRITING Think of an important holiday or festival in your
city or country. Answer the questions in D about it. Then use
USEFUL EXPRESSIONS
your ideas and the Useful Expressions to help you write a
We have a holiday called . . .
paragraph or two about it.    It takes place in / on . . .
It is a holiday for . . .

F Exchange papers with a partner. Answer the questions in    Many people travel / celebrate . . .
In the morning / evening, . . .
D about your partner’s writing. Circle any mistakes. Then return
Before / After / When . . .
the paper to your partner. Make corrections to your own writing.

7B GOALS Now I can . . .
© National Geographic Learning
1. Yes, I can.
Talk about parties, festivals, and holidays
2. Mostly, yes.
Describe what people do on those days
3. Not yet.

102 | UNIT 7

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 80 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 205 ────────

E WRITING Think of an important holiday or festival
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
in your city or country. Answer the questions in
D about it. Then use your ideas and the Useful
WARM-UP 10–15 min
Expressions to help you write a paragraph or two
Write the following actions on the board. Tell students
about it. 20–30 min
to have a reading race in which they look back
Before writing, students need to plan their writing
through the unit and write down the name of the
by making notes about what, where, and when it
event or festival it refers to (and the page number).
happens. If students don’t want to write about an
The winning student is the one to raise their hand first
actual festival, they can write a description of the
when they have written down all the answers.
unusual holiday they invented in B.
Local musicians and DJs perform (Festival of the
Sahara, page 97)
F Exchange papers with a partner. Answer the
Thousands of dancers parade (Carnival of Oruro,
questions in D about your partner’s writing. Circle
page 90–91)
any mistakes. Then return the paper to your
partner. Make corrections to your own writing.
People eat a sweet bread (Three Kings’ Day,
15–20 min
page 101)
You could also write these questions on the
You eat chips and salsa (Super Bowl, page 92)
board and tell students to give each other
You can win over $16,000 (The Race of Hope,
feedback on how to improve their descriptions: Is
page 100)
anything not clear? What would make it clearer?
Would more details make it more interesting?
What kind of details? Where? If time allows, give
A Look at the photos of three special days. Then
students time to rewrite their description, making
ask and answer the questions with a partner.
corrections and improvements. Collect the
5–10 min
papers for grading.
Have students study the three photos and the
names of these (real) special days. Then have
WRITING TIP: Rewriting
them discuss the questions with a partner and
Rewriting written work, after peer-editing or
speculate what happens. Invite pairs to sum up
feedback from the instructor, is an important
their ideas on each day and if they would like to
stage in the writing process. Rewriting helps
celebrate it.
students raise their awareness and promotes
self-correction.
B With your partner, use the questions below to
invent an unusual holiday. 10–15 min
Diagnostics
Students should be creative in this task and
Check students’ competencies as follows:
have some fun. If you think students need help
• Are students able to describe an unusual
to get the idea, you could start by writing the
holiday?
name of a holiday in the middle of the board and
then brainstorming ideas about it with the whole
• Can they present their unusual holiday?
class; for example, you could brainstorm ideas
• Are they able to write a description of a holiday
for National Wear Green to Class Day.
or festival?

C Take turns presenting your unusual holidays to
the class and taking notes. Then, as a class,
decide which of the holidays you would like to
7B
GOALS
celebrate every year. 20–30 min
Review students’ self-assessment in the
The pairs in B should present their idea for a new
goals box. Point out to students where
holiday to the class. Set a time limit of about one
they learned these skills in the unit. If they
© National Geographic Learning
minute for each presentation.
rated their ability below Yes, I can, they can
turn back to those pages and review the
exercises.
D Turn to the Unit 7 Writing appendix and read the
Talk about parties, festivals, and holidays:
text. Then answer the questions with a partner.
Vocabulary, page 97, A and C; Reading,
5–10 min
page 99, A–E
Have students read the model version of a
Describe what people do on those days:
description of a holiday called Chuseok in Korea.
Listening, page 100, A–B; Grammar,
After they have answered the four questions, tell
page 101, B–C; Active English, page 102,
them to underline any phrases that they think
A–F
might be useful in their own writing.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson B | 102a

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 81 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 206 ────────

C. How do you usually celebrate New Year in your
GLOBAL VOICES
country?
WARM-UP 5 min
D. When is New Year in your country?
Tell students to look at the photo from Brazil at the
E. If so, how were the celebrations different?
bottom of the page. Ask them if and when they have
fireworks in their countries. Extend the discussion
(Answers: 1D, 2B, 3C, 4A, 5E)
by asking students what the laws are on fireworks
in their country: Can you buy them in shops? Why?
Why not?
B Watch a video about how people celebrate New
Year’s. Circle T for true or F for false. 10–15 min
Students should read the sentences first and
CULTURE TIP: Fireworks
study the words in blue in the Word Bank.
Increasingly, many countries are making it harder
Before watching, they can try to predict the
for people to buy and use fireworks. In Chile and
answers to the sentences based on their existing
Ireland, you have to have a special license. In two
knowledge. Then play the video.
states in the US, you can’t buy fireworks at all. And
in many other countries, shops can only sell them to
C Watch the video again and answer the questions.
the public on a few days near New Year and there
15–20 min
are limits on when they can be used.
Give time for students to read the questions and
ask about any unknown words. Be prepared
ABOUT THE VIDEO
to play the video twice. Play it once all the way
The video shows a series of interviews with real
through, and then play it again, stopping at the
people talking about how they celebrate New Year’s
end of each section to check students’ answers.
Eve and New Year’s Day. Most of the speakers are
students of English currently living and studying in
VIDEO VIEWING TIP: Pause the video
Boston, US. They talk about when they celebrate
it and what they do. They also talk about the
This video is divided into natural sections because
differences between New Year in their own country
questions come up on the screen and the speakers
and in the US. Note that the speakers are learning
answer them. To make it more manageable, you
English, so your students might ask questions about
could pause the video after each section so that
certain errors they hear. Explain that this is a good
students can check their answers.
opportunity for them to hear English spoken by
other nationalities and to focus on the meaning.
D Work in pairs and plan a two-minute video about
New Year’s in your country or different countries.
A When is New Year’s in your country? How
Make notes about your video in a table, like this:
important is it? How do you celebrate it?
20–30 min
5–10 min
Assign pairs and tell them to take one sheet of
You can either discuss this question as a class
paper and divide it into two columns as shown
or put students in pairs and then have them
on the page. They could also add an extra
report back. If your students come from different
column on the left-hand side to indicate how
countries, set aside more time to find out how
long each part will take so that the total time is
New Year is similar and different between
two minutes.
countries and cultures. Also ask students, Have
Afterwards, have pairs join another pair and talk
you ever celebrated New Year in a different
through what their video will show. One person in
country? Was it very different?
each pair can describe what the video will show
and the other person in the pair can read what
EXTRA! Watch the video and number the
will be said.
questions 5–10 min
© National Geographic Learning
If you want your students to watch the video
TEACHING OPTION
once before answering questions about specific
Students could try to make their videos for
information, you could write on the board the five
homework based on their ideas in D. However, if
questions that appear in the video, but in a different
it’s going to be hard for them to find the right type
order. Then have students watch and number the
of video footage, they could prepare a slideshow
questions in the order they see them.
instead in which they find images from the internet
A. Have you ever celebrated New Year in a different
of New Year in their country and record a short,
country?
narrated presentation.
B. Is it an important holiday?

103a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 7, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 82 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 207 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A When is New Year’s in your country? How important is it? How do you celebrate it?

B Watch a video about how people celebrate New Year’s. Circle T for true or F for false.
1. The people in the video celebrate New Year’s at T F
WORD BANK
different times of the year.
A charm is an object that brings
2. Many of them think New Year’s is important in T F
luck.
their country.
A shrine is a religious place.
To wish / make a wish means
3. They all watch fireworks at midnight. T F
to hope for something good to
4. Most people celebrate with family and friends. T F
happen.

5. Everyone thinks New Year’s in the US is very similar T F
to their own country.

C Watch the video again and answer the questions.
Japan
1. In which country do some people go to a shrine on New Year’s?
White clothes
2. In Brazil, what do some people wear on New Year’s?
3. How late do some Brazilians stay awake on New Year’s Eve?
Until sunrise

Seven wishes
4. In Brazil, when people jump over waves seven times in the sea, what do they make?
5. On New Year’s, what is the difference between the seasons in Brazil and the US?
It’s summer in Brazil and winter in the US.
6. What are two differences that Chiyuki noticed between New Year’s in Japan and the US?
In the US, there were fireworks and people were having a big party.
7. Jaqueline has celebrated New Year’s Eve in the US and Colombia. What is similar and different
about the celebrations in these countries and in her country of Brazil?
In all of the countries, they celebrate with family and friends, but in the US and Colombia, they don’t wear white clothes.

D Work in pairs and plan a two-minute video about New Year’s in your country or different countries.
Make notes about your video in a table, like this:

What you see What you hear

Fireworks in the sky Narrator: “In many countries, people celebrate
New Year’s with fireworks . . .”
A family eating together Narrator: “and they often have a meal with
family and friends . . .”

Then join another pair and present your plans for the video.

© National Geographic Learning
New Year’s Eve fireworks
in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil

Lesson B | 103

WLTB_L2_U07_ptg01.indd 83 30/04/21 1:19 PM

──────── Page 208 ────────

UNIT 8

ABOUT THE PHOTO
About 1.5 million tourists a year    People often describe
Neuschwanstein Castle
visit Neuschwanstein Castle in    near Schwangau, Germany
southwest Bavaria, Germany.    as a “fairy-tale” castle.
It was originally built for a king
in the 19th century and is often
photographed because of its
“fairy-tale” appearance; the castle
could be taken from the pages of
a storybook.

INTRODUCE THE THEME
In this unit, students explore the
idea of stories and the meaning
behind them.

In Lesson A, students learn how
to talk about stories in books and
movies. They also develop the
listening strategies of listening for
details and summarizing. Finally,
they learn how to tell a story and
also the language they need to
show interest in a story.

In Lesson B, students learn to
talk about the characters and
messages of fairy tales. They
read about the Cinderella story,
practicing the reading strategies
of using background knowledge,
identifying main ideas, and
scanning for details. They also
listen to someone telling an
ancient myth and they practice
using adverbs of manner in
their own storytelling. Finally,
students write their own “modern”
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
fairy-tale story.
/ Tell a story    / Talk about the meaning of stories
/ Ask questions to find out what    / Describe how something is done
happened
WARM-UP 5 min
With books closed, write, Once
upon a time on the board and
ask, When do you use these
the two questions. Many students
message. Snack Attack tells the
words? Elicit the idea that we
will be familiar with the early
story of an old lady who is waiting
traditionally start a children’s
Disney movies such as Snow
to board a train. She starts to
story or fairy tale with these
White and Sleeping Beauty in
eat her cookies but is annoyed
words. Then ask students to say
which the castles often look similar
by a teenager who she thinks
© National Geographic Learning
the names of a few fairy tales or
to the one shown in the photo. As
is stealing her cookies. But not
famous children’s stories. If they
well as the traditional fairy-tale
everything is as it seems. Note
only know the name of a story in
books, more modern books such
that you will need to show the
their own language, see if they
as the Harry Potter series often
video in two parts so that students
can try to translate it for the rest of
feature magical places like this.
don’t see the ending until the final
the class.
exercise in D.
WARM-UP VIDEO
Warm-Up 4 min
Look at the photo. Answer the
About the video
questions. 5 min
Write the words Snack Attack on
This video is an award-winning
Have students read the caption
the board and ask students what
animated film with a moral
about the castle and then answer
they think it might mean. After

104 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 8

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 60 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 209 ────────

8
they have suggested a few words
and ideas, explain that it means a
small meal or “snack” you might
have to avoid feeling hungry
between two main meals.
ONCE UPON
A TIME
A You are going to watch a short
film called Snack Attack.*
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
Number the events (1–8) in
QUESTIONS.
the order you think they will
1. What do you see in the photo? How would you
happen. 5–10 min
describe this place?
At first, students should
2. Which books, movies, or TV shows does this
place remind you of?
work alone and try to put the
story in order. Then they can
WARM-UP VIDEO
compare their order with a
partner’s and see if they agree.
A You are going to watch a short film called
Monitor progress and help with
Snack Attack.* Number the events (1–8) in
the order you think they will happen.
vocabulary in the sentences
1
a. An old woman arrives at the train
as necessary. For example,
station.
you may need to explain what
6
b. She gets very angry with the young
a vending machine is (e.g.,
man and starts shouting.
a machine that gives you a
4
c. The young man also eats a cookie.
snack or a drink when you put
3
d. She sits down next to a young man,
money in it).
eats a cookie, and reads a newspaper.
7
e. He shares the last cookie with her.
8
f. Angrily, she gets on her train.
LANGUAGE TIP: Simple present
2
g. She buys a snack from a vending
Because the film is telling a
machine.
5
story, some students might ask
h. The old woman moves the cookies
away from him, but he takes another.
why the sentences don’t use the
* A snack attack (slang) is when you suddenly feel
simple past. Explain that when we
very hungry and have to eat.
describe the plot of a movie, we
normally use the simple present
B Watch the first part of the video and pause
when the woman gets on the train. Check
to explain what happens.
your answers in A.

C What do you think happens next? How does
B Watch the first part of the video
the story end? Tell the class your ideas.
and pause when the woman
D Watch the end of the video. What do you think
gets on the train. Check your
is the message of the story?
answers in A. 10–15 min
It’s very important that you only
play the video up to the part
where the woman gets onto the
D Watch the end of the video.
NOTES
train. Then pause it so students
What do you think is the
don’t see the end. Afterwards,
message of the story?
check the correct order of the
10–15 min
sentences in A as a class.
Play the entire video again
© National Geographic Learning
from the beginning, but
C What do you think happens
this time let it play until the
next? How does the story end?
very end. Then discuss the
Tell the class your ideas.
questions. Possible messages
10 min
of the video might be that
Give students a bit of time to
you shouldn’t judge people
come up with an ending. They
without all the facts or by their
can discuss it in pairs or work
appearance.
alone. After a few minutes,
invite suggestions about what
happens at the end.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 8 | 105

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 61 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 210 ────────

8A WHAT’S THE STORY ABOUT?

In this scene from the Life
of Pi movie, the tiger was
created using special effects.

VOCABULARY

A Do you know any movies that started as books? Do you prefer
The Crazy Rich
Asians movie is
reading the book or watching the movie? Why?
based on a book.

I prefer the book. I
B Read the text and check your understanding of the words in blue.
didn’t like the movie.
Then answer the questions below.

Good movies need good stories, so many are based on famous
WORD BANK
fiction. For example, Life of Pi is a best-selling book by the author
The main character(s) in
Yann Martel. It tells the story of a young man named Pi and his family.
the story is / are . . .
They own a zoo and move their animals from India to Canada. But on
The story is about . . .
the journey, the ship sinks, and only the main character survives on
easy to follow hard
to follow
a small boat with a tiger. The film director Ang Lee made a Life of Pi
predictable
movie, and like the book, the story is unpredictable and a lot of it
unpredictable
takes place at sea on the small boat. The movie is exciting to watch,
realistic unrealistic
and the special effects are very realistic. Sometimes, when a movie
is based on a book, the story needs to change so the movie is easy
to follow. But when Yann Martel saw Life of Pi, he liked it because the
movie was fairly similar to the book.

1. What is the name of the book? Is it fact or fiction?
Life of Pi. It’s fiction.
2. Who wrote the book? Was it successful?
Yann Martel. Yes, it was very successful.
3. Who is the main character?
Pi
Pi’s family travels from India to Canada with their zoo
4. What is the story about? Is it predictable?
animals. The ship sinks, but Pi survives on a boat with a tiger. No, it’s an unpredictable story.
5. Where does a lot of the story take place?
At sea on a small boat
6. How realistic are the movie’s special effects?
The special effects are very realistic.
7. Who made a film based on the book?
The film director Ang Lee© National Geographic Learning
8. Did Yann Martel like the film? Why or why not?
Yes, he liked it because the movie was fairly similar to the book.

C Work in pairs. Ask and answer the questions about your favorite book or movie.
1. What is the name of your favorite book or    4. Where does it take place?
movie?    5. What is the story about?
2. Who is the author or director?    6. Is it easy or hard to follow? Predictable or
3. Who are the main characters?    unpredictable?

106 | UNIT 8

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 62 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 211 ────────

3. happens (takes place)
8A WHAT’S THE STORY ABOUT?
4. looks real (realistic)
VOCABULARY
5. the person in charge of making a movie
(director)
WARM-UP 5 min
6. has sold many copies (best-selling)
With the class, look at the photo of the tiger in the
boat and read the caption. Ask students if anyone
7. not complicated (easy to follow)
has ever seen this movie or read the book. If a
8. books that are not true (fiction)
student says yes, ask them to summarize the plot.
If no one has seen or read it, ask students to guess
9. a person in the story (character)
what the story might be about. Ask, Why do you
think the tiger is in the boat? What has happened?
Next, have students answer the eight questions
on their own. Check the answers together as a
class.
A Do you know any movies that started as books?
Do you prefer reading the book or watching the
EXTRA! Pronunciation 5 min
movie? Why? 5 min
With books closed, read aloud any new multi-syllable
Discuss these questions as a class and find out
words from the page and ask students to write
what movies or books students like watching and
down the word, underline the stressed syllable, and
reading. Internationally known English-language
write the number of syllables. Here is a selection
movies that have been very successful and were
of words that often cause difficulty: character (3);
originally based on books include James Bond,
director (3); unpredictable (5); realistic (3); special
Harry Potter, and Lord of the Rings. However,
(2); effects (2).
your students’ answers will depend on which
countries they come from and famous films and
books in their own countries.
C Work in pairs. Ask and answer the questions
about your favorite book or movie. 10–15 min
Students will need to work alone at first. Have
MORE WORDS: Movies and books
them choose a book or movie and write a short
Movies: action, comedy, sci-fi & fantasy, thriller,
answer for each question. Circulate and help
animation, director, actor, producer
students with vocabulary. If students choose
a book or film title in their own language, they
Books: novel, biography, comic, textbook,
can try to translate the title into English. When
detective, murder mystery, author, publisher
everyone is ready, assign pairs and have students
tell each other about their choice.
CULTURE TIP: Movies around the world
TEACHING OPTION
It’s easy to assume that your students will be familiar
with certain types of films, but it often depends on
One option with C is to ask students to prepare their
where students come from. Many Disney animated
answers for homework so they have more time to
movies are universally known, but not all your
think about their choice and answer the questions.
students will watch movies from Hollywood. Students
If students choose a particular book, it’s also more
from southern Asia are more likely to be familiar with
interesting if they bring the book to class and show
Bollywood movies made in Mumbai, India. China,
everyone a copy of it. They can pass it around
on the other hand, has the second largest and the
and recommend it to others. It’s a useful way to
fastest-growing movie industry in the world.
encourage other students to read more.

TEACHING TIP: Extensive reading
B Read the text and check your understanding of
the words in blue. Then answer the questions
In class, we often ask students to read a text in
© National Geographic Learning
below. 15 min
a short amount of time (or “intensively”), but it’s
also important that students set aside time to read
First, ask students to read the text and make
“extensively.” For example, if your school has a
sure they understand all the words in bold. If you
library of graded readers, students could choose
think students will need more help checking the
one reader every two weeks, read it, and then
meanings of some words, you could write these
report back on the book by writing a short report
definitions and synonyms on the board and have
or presenting it to the class. The importance of
students match the words in blue:
extensive reading is that students choose the text
and read for pleasure rather than to answer a set of
1. surprising (unpredictable)
comprehension and exam-style questions.
2. follow the same plot as (based on)

Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson A | 106a

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 63 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 212 ────────

play the audio once for extra listening practice and
LISTENING
focus on listening for gist. Write these questions on
the board:
WARM-UP 5 min
Ask students about their reading outside of school.
1. What is Jamal writing? (A crime story)
Do they read books or magazines, read online,
2. What is a crowdsourced story? (When a large
download e-books? Is there a technology for
group of people write together online)
reading that they would like to try?
3. Why does Jamal enjoy writing? (It’s fun.)
A Answer the questions. Take notes and share your
Then play the audio and have students write the
ideas with a partner. 5 min
answers (given above).
Go over the questions with the class, then have
students write their answers. Assign students
to pairs to compare their ideas, and then share
C Summarize. Look at your notes from A and your
ideas with the class. Tell students that they will
answers in B. What is a crowdsourced story?
confirm the meaning of crowdsourcing when
Complete the summary below. Compare your
they listen. At this stage, it is not important
answers with a partner’s. 10–15 min
if students have been able to work out the
Go over the directions with the class, then have
meaning. What is important is getting them
students read and complete the summary.
into the habit of breaking words down and
Assign students to pairs to compare and discuss
trying to work out their meaning. Draw their
what a crowdsourced story is. Finally, go through
attention to the Academic Skill box, which
the answers. You could write the completed
encourages them to try to guess the meaning of
summary on the board.
new words.
Summarize. The ability to summarize what you
have listened to or read is an essential academic
LANGUAGE TIP: Crowdsourcing
and professional skill. In the future, your students
The meaning of the term crowdsourcing is that you
will probably need to do it in English when they
engage a group of people online to work together
study at a university and when they work for
towards a common goal. The example in the audio
companies and organizations. It relies on the
is one way to use crowdsourcing. More commonly,
skill of identifying key words and using them to
the term is used to describe when someone has a
express the main message of a text.
business idea and tries to raise money by asking
lots of people to donate small amounts of money
D Discuss the questions with a partner. 10 min
in order to start the business. Crowdsourcing sites
Pair students with a new partner. Remind them to
such as Kickstarter exist to let people raise money
give examples or reasons to support their opinion.
this way.

EXTRA! Crowdsourcing a story 10–15 min
B Listen for details. Listen to the conversation
Have the class write a story by crowdsourcing
about using crowdsourcing to write a story. Circle
among themselves. If access to technology allows,
the correct answer to complete each sentence.
open a collaborative document (such as a wiki or a
51 10 min
Google document) and have students collaborate
Have students read the statements and the
live in the classroom. Elicit a title and then write
options first. Then play the audio. Give students
the first line. Students will then contribute, each
time to complete their answers and then
person adding a line to the story. If internet access
compare them with a partner’s. Play the audio
is not available, the exercise can be done on paper.
again. Check answers with the class, playing the
Write the first line on several pieces of paper and
audio again as necessary.
distribute them around the classroom. The students
who have one of the sheets of paper should write
Listen for details. Remind students that when
© National Geographic Learning
the second line of the story. As soon as they finish,
listening for details they need to focus on key
they should hand it to a student who doesn’t have
words that will help them. They should identify
a paper. Students should continue like this, writing
and underline key words in the sentences before
a line then passing the paper to someone else. It is
they listen.
important to have sufficient story papers circulating
so that students don’t have to wait too long for
EXPANSION: Listening for gist 5 min
another paper. (For example, in a group of 30, have
If you feel that having your students listen for
about 10 story papers. They can all have the same
details in B might be too challenging, you could
first line or different ones.)

107a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 64 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 213 ────────

LISTENING

A Answer the questions. Take notes and share your ideas with a partner.
ACADEMIC SKILL
1. Have you ever heard the word crowdsourcing?
Using parts of words
to guess meaning
2. Can you guess the meaning by looking at the two parts of the word:
When you don’t know the
crowd and source?
meaning of a new word,
sometimes you can guess
B Listen for details. Listen to the conversation about using crowdsourcing
the meaning from its
different parts.
to write a story. Circle the correct answer to complete each sentence. 51
4. The story is .
1. Jamal is working .
a. unpredictable
a. alone
WORD BANK
When you contribute, you
b. unrealistic
b. with a couple of friends
help to make something
c. hard to follow
c. with a lot of people
happen.

5. Jamal is working on a story.
2. Jamal met the other writers .
a. fantasy
a. at school
b. love
b. in writing class
c. crime
c. online
6. The story isn’t .
3. Each person adds at a time.
a. realistic
a. one word
b. true
b. one sentence
c. well known
c. one ending

C Summarize. Look at your notes from A and your answers in B. What is a crowdsourced story?
Complete the summary below. Compare your answers with a partner’s.
people / writers
To create a crowdsourced story, (1.) work together. They don’t
online
work in an office. They work (2.) . Everyone contributes
a sentence / one sentence know
(3.) at a time. The people don’t (4.) each other,
money
and they don’t receive any (5.) for their work.

D Discuss the questions with a partner.
1. Do you think crowdsourcing is a good way to tell a story? Why or why not?
2. What do you think are some other ways that crowdsourcing can be used?

© National Geographic Learning
Part of Jamal’s story takes
place in Madrid, Spain. What
place do you think would
make a good story setting?

Lesson A | 107

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 65 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 214 ────────

SPEAKING

A Mia is telling Nico a story. Listen and then answer the questions
below. 52

Mia: Wow, I just heard an amazing story.

Nico: Yeah? What’s it about?

Mia: It’s a story about a waitress. She had a lot of money problems.

Nico: That sounds hard.

Mia: It is. Anyway, she found out she was losing her apartment.
She had to move, but she didn’t have enough money.

Nico: Oh, no!

Mia: As it turns out, she told one of her customers about the situation.
This customer was special. He came to the restaurant often and
knew the waitress well. And he wanted to help her.

Nico: So what did he do?

Mia: One day he paid his bill and left the restaurant, as usual.
When the waitress went to collect her tip, she found a
$3,000 tip . . . on a bill of $43.50!

Nico: Are you serious?

Mia: I am. It’s a true story. And in the end, the waitress was OK.

Nico: What a heartwarming story. I’m glad it had a happy ending.

1. How many characters are in the story?
Two, a server and a customer
In a restaurant
2. Where does it take place?
The waitress had
3. What happened? Was the story easy to follow?    When eating out in the US,
money problems, and the customer left her a huge tip to help her.
people usually tip their server
4. This is an example of a feel-good story. What do you think
an extra twenty percent for
A story that makes you feel good or happy.
that means?    service after finishing the meal.

B Practice the conversation with a partner.
SPEAKING STRATEGY 53
Tell a story
C On a piece of paper, write a word or sentence for each
I just heard an amazing /
item below. Then exchange papers with a partner. Use your
interesting / unbelievable story.
partner’s notes and the Speaking Strategy to write a story.
It’s a story about . . .
1. a person’s name 4. how the two people met
One day . . .
2. another person’s name 5. what happened to the two people
Later, . . . / After that, . . .
As it turns out, . . .
3. a place
In the end, . . .
© National Geographic Learning
D Work with a new partner.
Show interest and find out what
happened
Student A: Tell your story.
What’s it about?
Student B: Listen. Show interest. Ask follow-up questions.
Oh, no! / Really?
So what did he / she do?
My story is about a student named Jonah.
Something amazing happened to him.    What happened next?
What happened?    Are you serious? / Wow!

E Switch roles and do D again.

108 | UNIT 8

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 66 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 215 ────────

If you think your students might need help with
SPEAKING
the creativity in this task, you could try it as a
class first. Invite students to suggest answers
WARM-UP 5–10 min
for items 1–5. On the board, write their ideas for
With books closed, write on the board, A
two names, a place, how they met, and what
heartwarming story. Remind students that on the
happened. Then model it for the class by using
previous page they had to guess the meaning of
expressions from the “Tell a story” section of the
the word crowdsourcing by breaking it down into
Speaking Strategy and linking the five items on
two parts (crowd and source). Now ask them to
the board together.
guess what they think the word heartwarming might
mean when describing a story. After students have
Next, have students work alone and write down
made some suggestions, tell them that it means a
their own ideas for the five items. Then have
story that makes you feel good or happy in some
them swap their ideas with their partner and
way.
write a short story using their partner’s ideas
and the “Tell a story” expressions. As students
write, you can prompt them with ideas, but stress
A Mia is telling Nico a story. Listen and then answer
that the stories don’t have to be written perfectly
the questions below. 52 10 min
because the main objective is that they practice
Still with books closed, write the questions on the
the expressions.
board from page 108. Play the audio once and
have students write their answers. They can then
TEACHING TIP: Photographs
compare their answers with a partner’s. Play the
One way to help students think of the names of
audio again, if necessary, to confirm the answers.
characters, or imagine a place or plot, is to bring in
Next, ask students to open their books and read
photos of people in different places. These could
the conversation between Mia and Nico.
be taken from magazines and displayed on the
board. Students can choose two of the characters
B Practice the conversation with a partner. 5–10 min
and build their story based on them. Alternatively,
Before students practice, you could play
students can flip through the pages of World Link
each segment of the conversation and have
and find the images of two people from different
students repeat it. Students should read the
units and imagine the story if those two people were
conversation and then swap roles to repeat it. As
to meet.
a follow-up exercise, ask students to underline
any sentences or phrases in the conversation
D Work with a new partner. 10–15 min
that they think would be useful to learn. Then
tell them to read the list of expressions in the
When everyone has their stories ready, have
Speaking Strategy and compare it with what they
them work with new partners and take turns
have underlined.
telling their stories and listening and showing
interest.
EXTRA! Remember the lines 10 min
TEACHING OPTION: Peer evaluation
To focus on the expressions needed for showing
interest and finding out what happened, have
When setting up a pairwork exercise similar to that
students work in A-B pairs. Student A should play
in D, you could add a third student (Student C)
the part of Mia with book open. Student B should
to the exercise whose responsibility is to listen to
play Nico but with their book closed. As Student
the conversation and check any expressions in the
A reads the part of Mia, Student B needs to listen
Speaking Strategy they hear from Student A and
closely and try to remember a suitable phrase to
Student B. At the end, Student C should give each
show interest or find out what happened. The words
student a score for the number of expressions they
don’t have to be exactly the same as those written,
used. Then, everyone should exchange roles two
but they must make sense. If Student A is satisfied
more times so everyone plays both roles and has
with B’s response, they continue reading the
the chance to listen for and score the number of
conversation until the end. Afterwards, students can
© National Geographic Learningexpressions.
swap roles and repeat the exercise.

E Switch roles and do D again.
C On a piece of paper, write a word or sentence for
Have students exchange roles and tell
each item below. Then exchange papers with a
their stories.
partner. Use your partner’s notes and the Speaking
Strategy to write a story. 10 min

Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson A | 108a

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 67 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 216 ────────

While the old woman was waiting for her train, a
GRAMMAR
young man ate her cookie!
WARM-UP 5–10 min
When the old woman was waiting for her train, a
Invite a student to tell you about their day yesterday.
young man ate her cookie!
Prompt them with a few questions, such as, What
The old woman was waiting for her train when a
time did you get up? When did you leave the
young man ate her cookie!
house? Where did you go? What did you do after
that? As the student answers, write the verbs they
Notice that if while or when introduce the first clause,
use on the board, such as got up, left, went, and
you need a comma before the second clause. In
started work. Ask everyone what verb form we use
general, while and when both mean during the time
to talk about the past (Answer: the simple past).
that, though we sometimes use when to imply that
If necessary, refer students back to the grammar
one action happened after another (or interrupted it)
page of Lesson B in Unit 1, which looks at the
rather than at the same time.
simple past. Finally, explain that in today’s lesson,
students are going to learn another way to talk
EXTRA! Rewrite Snack Attack 10–15 min
about the past.
If you want to give your students more practice with
A Compare the two underlined verbs in the
statements in the past continuous and the simple
sentence below. Which verb describes a long
past, refer them back to A on page 105. There
(continuous) action in progress? Which verb
are eight sentences telling the story of the video
describes a short (simple) action? 20–30 min
Snack Attack. In pairs, students should rewrite the
sentences in the past using either the simple past
The two sentences describe what happened in
or the past continuous. If you decide to present the
the animated video called Snack Attack at the
use of when and while (see above), you could also
beginning of the unit. Have students read and
tell students to try to join some of their sentences
answer the questions. Point out that the past
with these conjunctions.
continuous is formed with the past form of to be
and the main verb + -ing.

C Unscramble the questions and their answers.
B Read the Unit 8, Lesson A Grammar Reference
10–15 min
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
To complete exercises C and D, students
the exercises below. 10 min
must focus on the question form of the past
Go over the examples in the chart. Elicit more
continuous, so they will refer to the lower part
examples by pointing to the names, verbs,
of the chart in B. Do the first question with the
and times on the board from the Warm-Up,
class, then have students complete the exercise
and asking what different people were doing at
individually. Have them compare their answers
certain times yesterday. Have students complete
with a partner’s, and then check answers with
the exercises on page 200. The grammar charts
the class. Write the correct question forms on the
on page 200 include further examples and
board so students can check them.
explanations on when to use the form, expanding
on the information in the chart on page 109.
D Ask and answer the questions in C with a partner.
Give answers that are true for you. Then think of a
TEACHING OPTION: The flipped classroom
follow-up question to ask your partner. 10–15 min
To open up time for in-class communicative tasks,
Read the directions and the example
assign the Grammar Reference on page 200 as
conversation in the speech bubbles. Elicit ideas
homework. Check students’ answers in the next
for possible follow-up questions for each item
class and then turn back to page 109 and do the
in C, then have students write their own. Monitor
communicative exercises there, starting with C.
and check that students are forming questions
correctly. Assign students to pairs to ask and
answer the questions. Monitor and prompt with
LANGUAGE TIP: When and while
© National Geographic Learningfurther follow-up questions. Call on various
The simple past is more commonly used than the
students to share something about their partner
past continuous. In addition, we tend to use the
with the class.
past continuous when we use the simple past.
The two verb forms often appear as two clauses
in the same sentence and they are joined by the
conjunctions when or while. So we can join two
sentences in different ways, like this:

The old woman was waiting for her train. A young
man ate her cookie!

109a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 68 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 217 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Compare the two underlined verbs in the sentence below. Which verb describes a long (continuous)
action in progress? Which verb describes a short (simple) action?

The old woman was waiting for her train when a young man ate her cookie!
Was waiting describes a long action in progress (past continuous) and ate describes a short action (simple past).

B Read the Unit 8, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

THE PAST CONTINUOUS: STATEMENTS

Subject was / were (not) Verb + -ing

I / He / She was(n’t)    at four o’clock.
studying English    last summer.
You / We / They were(n’t)    after lunch.

THE PAST CONTINUOUS: QUESTIONS

Wh- word was / were Subject Verb + -ing Answers

Yes / No Questions Were you reading a story? Yes, I was. / No, I wasn’t.

Wh- Questions What were you reading? (I was reading) a story.

C Unscramble the questions and their answers.
What were you doing at 8:00 last night?
1. A: were / doing / at / what / you / last night / 8:00

I was watching a TV show.
B: a TV show / watching / I / was

What was your friend wearing yesterday?
2. A: yesterday / friend / was / what / wearing / your

She was wearing her school uniform.
B: wearing / school / her / she / uniform / was

Were you talking on the phone earlier?
3. A: the / were / phone / talking / earlier / you / on

No, I wasn’t.
B: wasn’t / no, / I

I was eating lunch.
lunch / was / I / eating

What was your class studying last week?
4. A: studying / was / your / last week / class / what

We were studying grammar in World Link.
B: were / World Link / grammar / we / studying / in

Was your family traveling last summer?
5. A: summer / family / was / your / traveling / last

Yes, we were.
B: were / we / yes,

© National Geographic LearningWe went to Brazil.
to / went / Brazil / we

D Ask and answer the questions in C with a partner. Give answers that are true for you. Then think of
a follow-up question to ask your partner.

What were you doing    How long were
at 8:00 last night?    you studying?
I was studying at    For about three hours. I was
home in my room. preparing for a big test.

Lesson A | 109

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 69 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 218 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A You are going to hear two people talk about a car accident. One person is lying.
Listen to each person’s story and take notes below. 54

Jenna Ryan

yesterday, after school yesterday
When did it happen?

near school near school
Where did it happen?

Someone hit her car. Someone hit his car.
What happened?

blue blue or black
What color was the car?

a woman in her 30s a man
Who was driving?

B Circle your answers below. Discuss your ideas with a partner.
3. I think Jenna / Ryan is making up the story.
1. Jenna / Ryan remembers the details clearly.
2. Jenna / Ryan sounds more confident.

C Think about something funny or unusual that happened to you. Then follow the steps below with
a partner.

1. Student A: Tell your story about the funny or unusual experience.
Student B: Listen, show interest, and find out what happened. Take notes on who, what, where,
when, and why.

2. Switch roles and repeat step 1.
3. Now choose one of your stories. You will tell this story to another pair.
4. Think of ways that you can make the story untrue (for example, changing the details). Write down
another version of the story with the untrue parts.

D Get together with another pair.
• Pair 1: One of you will tell the story as it really
I was walking to work one day when
I met someone famous.
happened to you. The other person will tell the story
with the made-up parts. Begin with each person
I was walking to the store one day
saying the first sentence of their story. Take turns
when I met someone famous.
telling the rest, one sentence at a time.

• Pair 2: Ask each person in pair 1 questions about
OK, let me start with Alexei. You said
you were walking to work. Where exactly
his or her story. You have one minute. Then guess:
do you work?
Who is telling the truth and who is making up the
story? How do you know?

E Switch roles and do D again.
© National Geographic Learning
8A GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Tell a story
2. Mostly, yes.
Ask questions to find out what happened
3. Not yet.

110 | UNIT 8

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 70 30/04/21 1:33 PM

──────── Page 219 ────────

D Get together with another pair. 15–20 min
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
The goal of every contestant is to make the
WARM-UP 5 min
judges believe him or her. Remind students that
With books closed, talk about how sometimes
one contestant must tell the truth, but the other
people tell stories in which they lie and add extra
can invent information. The two stories do not
details that are untrue. Ask students, How do you
have to match except at the beginning. Have
know if someone is lying? How do they sound? How
three students demonstrate the beginning of
does their body language change? Write their ideas
the conversation at the bottom of the page in
on the board.
the speech bubbles. Questions are for Person 1
and Person 2, as on a TV show. Enforce the oneminute time limit. Allow time at the end for the
TEACHING OPTION
judges to give and explain their decision and for
Before students open their books, tell them they
the contestants to reveal who told the truth.
are going to hear two people telling a story about
yesterday. Ask them to listen and write notes about
E Switch roles and do D again. 15–20 min
anything they hear. Play the audio. Invite various
students to explain to the class what they think they
This time, pair 2 are contestants and pair 1 are
heard. Try to build up an idea of what both stories
judges. If one minute was too long or too short in
are about.
D, adjust the time limit.

LARGE CLASS OPTION
A You are going to hear two people talk about a
car accident. One person is lying. Listen to each
It’s important that judges not know who’s telling the
person’s story and take notes below. 54 15 min
truth before they begin the exercise. So, the two
pairs should not have been sitting near each other
Review the instructions and the chart. Next,
for C. In a large group, it may be too difficult to
provide more of the context by explaining that
move so many pairs several seats away or across
the people are on a TV show, trying to win a
the room. As alternatives, you could: (1) Do only D
prize. Students are the judges. Who is telling the
with several pairs of volunteer contestants going
truth? The person they pick is the winner, even if
to the front of the class, and all the other students
they pick the liar. (This exercise is loosely based
as judges; or (2) Make groups of six (judges) and
on the old TV show called To Tell the Truth.)
move just one pair (of contestants) to another
Have students listen and take notes in the chart.
group. Move one pair at a time clockwise around
Check answers on the board.
the room to minimize confusion.

B Circle your answers below. Discuss your ideas
Diagnostics
with a partner. 10–15 min
Check students’ competencies as follows:
After discussion in pairs, follow up with the whole
• Are students able to tell a story?
class. Ask for a show of hands of students who
think that Jenna is telling the truth, and the same
• Are they able to show interest and find out what
for Ryan. Students should tell you the reasons
happened?
for their votes. Finally, reveal that Jenna told the
• Can they make statements and ask questions
truth; Ryan did not. Were students right?
about the past?

C Think about something funny or unusual that
8A
GOALS
happened to you. Then follow the steps below
with a partner. 10 min
Review students’ self-assessment in the goals
box. Point out to students where they learned
This is a conversation. Student A tells a story.
these skills in the unit. If they rated their ability
Student B asks questions and takes notes.
below Yes, I can, they can turn back to those
Student B can ask any questions he or she
© National Geographic Learning
pages and review the exercises.
wants. In steps 1 and 2, both partners must tell
the truth. Do steps 1 and 2 before introducing
Tell a story: Vocabulary, page 106, C;
step 3. In step 3, partners choose the story they
Speaking, page 108, C–E; Active English,
will both tell in D. In step 4, students should write
page 110, C–E
another version of the story with some untrue
Ask questions to find out what happened:
parts. Before they begin, briefly brainstorm ways
Speaking, page 108, D–E; Grammar,
a story can be changed to make it untrue (day /
page 109, B–D
time of day / location / weather, etc.).

Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson A | 110a

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 71 30/04/21 1:33 PM

──────── Page 220 ────────

EXPANSION: Dictation 15 min
8B MODERN FAIRY TALES
To consolidate the new vocabulary in A and to
prepare students for the task in B, read this text
VOCABULARY
aloud and have students write down what they hear.
WARM-UP 10 min
Star Wars is a good example of a modern fairy
With books closed, write fairy tale on the board. Ask
tale. It’s a traditional story about good and
the class, What is a fairy tale? Do you enjoy fairy
evil, but it takes place in space with incredible
tales? What are the names of some fairy tales? What
technology. One of the main characters is Rey.
are they about?
She’s clever and brave and she discovers that
she has magic powers. She has to fight evil and,
Next, have students open their books to page 111
in the end, she succeeds in winning.
and look at the photo of movie director Guillermo
del Toro looking at one of his characters from Pan’s
Labyrinth and read the caption. Ask, What type of
TEACHING TIP: Dictations
fairy tale is Pan’s Labyrinth? (Answer: modern). Ask
if anyone has seen the movie and ask students to
When you dictate a text, read it clearly with pauses
guess how they think a modern fairy tale might be
on the punctuation, but don’t slow down too much.
different from an old fairy tale.
Read it once or twice, then let students compare
what they have written down. Then read it again
until students have written most of it. Finally, you
EXTRA! Reading comprehension questions
could show the text on the board.
10 min

In A, students will read the text and match the
words in blue with their definitions. But if you want
B Work with a partner. Follow the steps below.
to check students’ general understanding of the text
15 min
first, write these comprehension questions on the
Go over the instructions with students. In pairs,
board and ask students to find the answers (given
students should do steps 1–3. If necessary,
in parentheses).
they can use the ideas in the text such as Harry
Potter or Star Wars and look at the examples
1. Who reads fairy tales? (Children and adults)
given at the bottom of the page. However, try
2. Where are they often set? (In ancient places with
to encourage them to use ideas from movies,
castles and forests)
books, and TV in their own countries, too (the
choices don’t have to be in English). As students
3. Who are the characters? (lost children, talking
discuss their modern fairy tales, they should
animals, people with magic)
take notes about their ideas. Then, one option
4. Where do modern fairy tales take place? (in
is to put pairs of students together in groups of
space and other new places)
four and have them report to each other on their
ideas. Monitor and provide help as necessary.
5. How do all the stories end? (happily)
Ask follow-up questions to prompt further
discussion. When pairs have finished, call on
A Read the text about modern fairy tales. Then
various students to tell the class about the fairy
match the words in blue to the definitions. 10 min
tale their partner talked about.
Have students read the nine definitions
individually and match them to the words in
CULTURE TIP: Heroes and villains
blue. Remind them to think about the kind of
It is becoming increasingly popular in the movie
word each definition refers to (verb, adjective,
world to tell traditional fairy tales and other stories
noun, etc.). Afterwards, have students compare
from the perspective of the villain—for example, in
their answers with a partner’s. Then check the
the movie Maleficent, or the story of the “bad” witch
answers as a class. Note that you may also need
in Wicked. Another popular twist in storytelling in
to explain what a ghost is. (Definition: a person
the movie world is starting off by telling the story
who is dead but who appears to living people.)
© National Geographic Learningfrom the (good) hero’s point of view—for example,
from Luke Skywalker’s point of view in Star Wars—
TEACHING OPTION 5 min
and then later shifting to telling us the villain’s, or
Darth Vader’s, story.
Say the nine words and have students repeat them
so they can say them correctly. They could also
underline the stressed syllable in each, like this:
traditional, magic, evil, clever, incredible, ancient,
(brave is one syllable), discovers, succeeds.

111a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 72 30/04/21 1:33 PM

──────── Page 221 ────────

8B MODERN FAIRY TALES

VOCABULARY

A Read the text about modern fairy tales. Then match the words in blue to the definitions.

Every country has its own fairy tales. They are traditional stories for children, but sometimes
adults read them, too. Often, they are set in ancient places with castles and forests, and they
tell stories about characters such as lost children, talking animals, or people with magic. Some
of the most famous fairy tales, such as Cinderella or Sleeping Beauty, have become films.
Today, modern fairy tales like Harry Potter and Star Wars have new characters and take place
in space and other new places. Whether old or modern, in most fairy tales . . .

• there is a good character and an evil character.

• the good character is often clever and brave.

• the good character has a difficult challenge but always succeeds.

• incredible things happen (e.g., animals talk, people have special powers).

• the good character discovers something important about life and the story ends happily.

1. old, from past generations of people:    5. amazing (and difficult to believe):
incredible
traditional

2. special powers to do impossible things:    6. from a long time ago (often a place or
magic    ancient
building):
brave
3. very bad (usually describing a person):    7. not scared of danger:
evil    discovers
8. finds out something:
4. intelligent; able to learn quickly:    9. does something that is difficult:
clever    succeeds

B Work with a partner. Follow the steps below.
1. Choose a modern fairy tale (a movie, book, or TV show) to talk about.
2. Which information from the text in A is true for your story?    In Star Wars: The
Rise of Skywalker,
3. Do you like the story? Why or why not?    the main character
is Rey. She’s
4. Choose a different modern fairy tale and repeat steps 1–3.
clever and brave.

Examples of modern fairy tales
Frozen Spirited Away Star Wars Superman The Lion King

© National Geographic Learning
Pan’s Labyrinth is a
modern fairy tale.
The movie’s director,
Guillermo del Toro, is
famous for his creativity
with magical characters
and special effects.

Lesson B | 111

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 73 30/04/21 1:33 PM

──────── Page 222 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5 min
Many fairy tales have been
adapted for animated and
THE CINDERELLA
live-action films, in particular by
Disney. Ask your students, How
many movies of fairy tales do
you know? Which ones have you
STORY
seen? Some possible answers
are: Sleeping Beauty, Snow White
A famous fairy tale
1.
and the Seven Dwarfs, Cinderella,
The Cinderella story is a famous one. Cinderella was living happily with her
family when her mother died. Her father remarried. Cinderella’s new stepmother
The Little Mermaid, Beauty and
and two stepsisters treated her poorly. She had to wear old clothes and work
the Beast.
hard while the sisters wore beautiful clothes and had fun.

You know the rest of the story. A good fairy1 helped Cinderella. She turned
Cinderella’s old clothes into a beautiful dress. Cinderella went to a party, and
A Use background knowledge.
a prince fell in love with her. Cinderella left the party quickly and didn’t tell the
Look at the title and the photo.
prince her name. But she did leave a glass slipper, and the prince used that to
What do you know about the
find her. Eventually, Cinderella and the prince married and lived happily ever after.
fairy-tale character Cinderella?
One story, many cultures
2.
Tell a partner. 5 min
That’s one telling of the story, but the Cinderella fairy tale is found in many
Continue the conversation
different countries with some differences. In an African version, for example, there
begun in the Warm-Up, writing
is one stepsister, not two. In a version from the Philippines, a forest spirit helps the
students’ ideas on the board
Cinderella character. Settareh, a Middle Eastern Cinderella, goes to a New Year’s
about the character and plot
party. And Cinderella is not always a woman. In an Irish story, a young boy, Becan,
marries a princess and lives happily ever after.
of Cinderella. There may be
disagreement about certain
A present-day Cinderella
3.
details, and this is OK. The
There are also modern retellings of the Cinderella story. In one, a girl named
goal is to get students thinking
Cindy Ella is a student at a Los Angeles high school. Her fashionable
about the story before reading.
stepmother and older stepsisters care a lot about shopping and money. Cindy
doesn’t. When she writes a letter to her school newspaper against a school
Use background knowledge.
dance, she becomes very unpopular with both students and teachers. Only her
Using background knowledge
two best friends—and later the school’s most handsome boy—support her.
involves students activating
Why we love her
4.
knowledge they already
Why is the Cinderella story so popular and found in so many cultures? There
have about a topic. This step
are a few reasons. First of all, it’s a romantic story, which is a popular style.
also enables them to recall
Also, Cinderella is a kind girl with a hard life. People want her to succeed. But
vocabulary and language
maybe the most important reason is that, in the Cinderella story, a person
2 but overcomes3 the difficulties in the end. That’s a story that
structures related to the topic,
struggles,
everyone—boy or girl, young or old—wants to believe can happen. 55
which will help their reading
comprehension.
1A fairy is someone with magical power who often has wings.
2To struggle means to try hard to do something difficult.
3To overcome means to deal with a difficult situation successfully.
CULTURE TIP: Comic-Con
112 | UNIT 8
The woman in the photo dressed
as Cinderella is going to an event
called Comic-Con. When Comic-
Con first began, it was a comic
famous celebrities from movies
of headings—to tell the reader
book convention in which fans of
and TV, to play new video games,
the main idea of a section of
comic books could meet up and
and to buy books, comic books,
text. Some students will finish
share their love of the characters.
and related objects.
before others. Tell students to
© National Geographic Learning
Over the years, Comic-Con has
raise their hands when they
become a huge international
finish so you can pair them to
organization with annual events
B Identify main ideas. Read
compare their answers. Check
in major cities around the
the article. Then write the
answers with the class.
world. Nowadays, thousands of
subheadings below in the
participants dress up as their
correct places in the reading.
Identify main ideas. Remind
favorite characters from comic
Two are extra. 20–30 min
students that they should
books, books, video games, TV
look for the main idea in each
Read the subheadings and
shows, and movies. They gather
paragraph when they first read
point out the four write-on lines
in convention centers to meet
the text. Help students notice
in the text. Elicit the purpose

112 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 74 30/04/21 1:33 PM

──────── Page 223 ────────

that this is often presented in
the first or second sentence
A Use background knowledge. Look at the title and the photo. What do you know about the fairy-tale
of a paragraph. Focusing
character Cinderella? Tell a partner.
on identifying main ideas
first will help students with
B Identify main ideas. Read the article. Then write the subheadings below in the correct places in
their general understanding
the reading. Two are extra.
of a text, providing them
• One story, many cultures    • Why we love her    • Cinderella in the Philippines
with a framework for then
• Cinderella online    • A present-day Cinderella    • A famous fairy tale
understanding details.
C Scan for details. Match the information to make true sentences. One answer is extra.
c
a. attends a New Year’s    d. is a boy “Cinderella.”
1. The African Cinderella
C Scan for details. Match the
party.    e. is a movie version of the
d
2. Becan
information to make true
b. gets help from a forest    Cinderella story.
f
3. Cindy Ella
sentences. One answer is
spirit.    f. is an unpopular high
b
4. The Filipina Cinderella
extra. 10–15 min
c. has only one stepsister.    school student.
a
5. Settareh
Tell students to scan quickly
to find the names, then read
D Answer the questions with a partner.
enough to make complete
1. Why is the Cinderella story so popular? Find three reasons in the article.
1. It is a romantic story. 2. Cinderella is a kind girl with a difficult life and people
sentences with the phrases
Do you agree with them?
want her to succeed. 3. A person struggles and succeeds in the end, and we all want to believe this is possible.
2. Is there a Cinderella story in your country?
below. If you have a sense of
If so, what is the story?
how long this should take your
students, set a time limit. After
checking the answers, answer
questions about unfamiliar
vocabulary.

Scan for details. Remind
students that scanning means
looking over a text quickly
in order to find specific
information. Students shouldn’t
A woman dressed as
read in detail until they find the
Cinderella takes the
information they are looking for,
subway to Comic-Con
and then read that sentence
in New York City (US).

carefully.

D Answer the questions with a
partner. 10–15 min
Go over the questions with
the class. Give students a few
minutes to think about their
answers and write down a few
ideas. Assign them to pairs to
answer the questions. Monitor
Lesson B | 113
and provide help as necessary.
Compare answers as a class.

TEACHING TIP: Unfamiliar
• What difficulty does the main
EXTRA! Create a new
vocabulary in reading texts
version 10–15 min
character have to overcome?
Allow students a very limited
Put students into small groups
• How does the story end?
© National Geographic Learning
number of vocabulary explanations.
and ask them to create their own
Students don’t have to write a
But first, guide them through
modern retelling of Cinderella.
complete story; they just need to
guessing as many unfamiliar words
Write the following questions on
answer the questions with their
as possible. After that, write their
the board to help them:
ideas (note that they will write a
remaining vocabulary requests
• What is your main character’s
complete story later in this unit,
on the board. Let students vote
name?
on page 116). At the end, invite
on which ones you’ll explain. In
groups to summarize their new
the end, they may not need any.
• How many sisters (or brothers)
version for the whole class.
Tell them to add their choices of
does she (or he) have?
interesting or useful words to their
• Where does the story take
vocabulary notebooks.
place?

Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson B | 113

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 75 30/04/21 1:33 PM

──────── Page 224 ────────

LISTENING

A Look at the photo below and read the caption. In the past, how did people explain weather and
nature? Who explains these things nowadays?
In the past, people told stories and myths to explain weather and nature. Nowadays, scientists explain
these things.
B Listen to someone telling an ancient story and answer the questions. 56
WORD BANK
1. Which part of the world does the story come from?
myth an old story that often
From the area of southern Nigeria and southwestern Cameroon, in central Africa.
explains nature or tells the
Sheep
2. What type of animal were Thunder and Lightning?
history of a people
Into the sky
3. In the end, where did the king send them?
ram a male sheep
violent using force to hurt
C Listen for specific information. Listen again and choose the correct
someone or damage
answers. For one question, there is more than one answer. 56
something

1. At the beginning, where did Thunder and Lightning live?
a. In the sky b. In the forest c. In a town

2. Why was Lightning dangerous?
a. He killed people. b. He stole food and money. c. He burned down buildings.

3. Did Lightning listen to Thunder?
a. Yes, always. b. Sometimes. c. No, never.

4. How many times did the king send them away?
a. Once b. Twice c. Three times

D Make connections. Work in groups and discuss the questions.
1. In your country and culture, what are the most famous myths and stories?
2. Do any of them try to explain something like the weather or nature, or do they have some kind of
lesson about life that is still true today?

E PRONUNCIATION: Pausing Listen to the sentences from the story. Draw lines (|) where the
storyteller adds short pauses. How does this make it easier for the listener? 57
Pausing makes the story easier for the listener to follow.
| |
1. The son, Lightning, was often angry and violent.
| |
2. His mother ran quickly after him and shouted angrily, “Stop, Lightning! Stop what you are doing!”
|
3. After a while, the local people complained to their king about Lightning.
| | | |
4. And often, a few seconds later, you will hear his mother, Thunder, telling him to stop.

F In pairs, practice reading the sentences in E aloud with the correct pauses.

© National Geographic Learning
In the past, people told myths and
stories to explain weather, such
as thunder and lightning. In the
modern world, scientists help
explain nature and the weather.

114 | UNIT 8

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 76 30/04/21 1:33 PM

──────── Page 225 ────────

D Make connections. Work in groups and discuss
LISTENING
the questions. 10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Before students start working in their groups,
they should read the questions and write a few
Write weather in the middle of the board. Have
notes so that they can talk about myths in their
students brainstorm any words related to weather
culture. Then have them work in groups and
starting with the obvious, such as sunny, rainy,
talk about their answers. If your students don’t
snowing, etc. Then try to elicit higher-level words
know much about myths and stories in their
such as cloudy, drizzling, etc. Make sure the words
countries, you could assign them the homework
thunder and lightning are also listed and defined if
task of researching one myth from the internet
necessary.
and then, in the next class, retelling the myth and
explaining its life lesson.
A Look at the photo below and read the caption.
Make connections. Students use their higher-
In the past, how did people explain weather and
order thinking to make connections between
nature? Who explains these things nowadays?
the information in the listening and their
10 min
own knowledge. The task makes them think
Have students read the caption and answer the
analytically about the content of the listening
two questions as a class. Clarify the meaning of
and how it relates to their own experience.
the word myth in the Word Bank.
This is a key academic skill and useful in their
professional lives.
LANGUAGE TIP: Myth and legend
E PRONUNCIATION: Pausing Listen to the
A myth is a fictional story with symbolic meaning
sentences from the story. Draw lines (|) where
that teaches us something about the world. A
the storyteller adds short pauses. How does this
legend is a story about the past that has some
make it easier for the listener? 57 10 min
real connection with historical fact; for example, in
English history, King Arthur was real and there are
Play the four sentences and have students draw
many legends about him that may or may not be
their lines. They should compare their answers
true.
with a partner’s. Play the audio again if students
cannot agree on where a pause is. Afterwards,
ask students what the rule might be for pausing:
B Listen to someone telling an ancient story
In the examples in this exercise, all the lines
and answer the questions. 56 10 min
occur where there is punctuation; although it is
possible for speakers to sometimes pause where
Give students time to read the three questions
there isn’t punctuation, it’s a useful guideline for
and the definitions of ram and violent in the Word
students to follow.
Bank. Remind students that they don’t need to
understand every word at this stage, and that
they are listening only for a part of the world, a
PRONUNCIATION TIP: Pausing
type of animal, and another place. Play the audio
When a speaker pauses, he or she divides the
once or twice and check the answers as a class.
words into chunks that are sometimes called
“thought groups.” Each thought group will have
C Listen for specific information. Listen again and
at least one word that has an important function
choose the correct answers. For one question,
and is often the word (or words) with the main
there is more than one answer. 56 15–20 min
stress in the thought group. By becoming aware of
thought groups and pausing in speech, students
As students have already listened to the audio,
can also start to think about how they pause when
they could try to predict some of the answers.
giving a talk, which will help them improve their
Make sure they notice that one of the questions
delivery to, for example, an audience of people in a
has two correct answers. Then play the audio. In
presentation.
pairs, have students compare answers.
© National Geographic Learning
Listen for specific information. When preparing
for a question that tests their ability to listen
F In pairs, practice reading the sentences in E
for specific information, have students read
aloud with the correct pauses. 10 min
the question carefully and use the question to
Have students practice reading the sentences
help guess what type of information they need
with pauses. They need to focus on pausing but
to listen for. Developing this technique will be
still make it sound natural. For further practice,
especially helpful for students when they take
they could choose a short text from the book,
listening exams in the future.
such as the text in B on page 106, mark where
they think the pauses should be, and practice
reading it aloud to each other.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson B | 114a

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 77 30/04/21 1:33 PM

──────── Page 226 ────────

C Circle the correct words to complete the profile.
GRAMMAR
Then take turns reading the story aloud in pairs.
10–15 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Ask students to read the profile and circle the
With books closed, ask a student to tell you an
answers. Students should underline the verb for
action to do; for example, a student could say,
each adverb or adjective as they work. When
You pick up a pen and you write those words on
they’re ready, check answers with the class. For
the board. Next, ask students, How am I doing it?
more explicit grammar practice, when students
and do the action of picking up a pen very slowly.
give an answer, have them say the verb and the
Elicit the adverb of manner slowly and add it to the
answer they circled, then action verb plus adverb
sentence: You pick up a pen slowly. Now repeat
or stative verb plus adjective. Finally, assign
the action again but very quickly. Elicit the adverb
students to pairs to read the text to each other.
quickly and rewrite the sentence on the board so it
Monitor and help with pronunciation as necessary.
reads, You pick up a pen quickly. Explain that slowly
and quickly are adverbs of manner and describe
how an action is done.
D Get into small groups. Add four verbs and two
adverbs to the chart below. 10 min
Ask students to add action verbs and adverbs
A Read the sentences from the story about Thunder
of manner. Tell them that in E, they’ll be acting
and Lightning. In each sentence, underline the
out the verbs and adverbs in the chart, so they
word that describes how the action was done.
should choose ones that are easy to act out.
3 min

If you have done the Warm-Up above, students
should find this very straightforward to do, as it
E Choose a verb and an adverb. Then act out the
consolidates what you have already presented.
combination. Can your group guess what you’re
doing? Take turns with the people in your group.
20–25 min
B Read the Unit 8, Lesson B Grammar Reference
Students shouldn’t announce their choices; the
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
others have to guess. Allow students to act out
the exercises below. 20–30 min
the same two words as someone else if they wish.
Go over the sentences in the chart, then have
This may help shy students feel more confident.
students identify the verb in each sentence.
Point out the adverbs of manner and help
TEACHING OPTION: Competition
students notice that they describe the action in
the sentence—they explain how that action was
Make groups of four or five, and have each group
done. Point out the difference with stative verbs;
appoint a scorekeeper who doesn’t play. The first
that is, that they take adjectives, not adverbs.
actor begins acting out his or her words. The others
Have students complete the exercises on
guess. They must guess both words correctly. The
page 201. Alternatively, you could have students
scorekeeper counts how many guesses it takes
complete the exercises for homework the day
the group to guess the actor’s words. The number
before and check understanding during class.
of guesses is the score. Each person guessing
The grammar chart on page 201 includes further
(not the actor) gets that score. Add up individual
examples, expanding on the information in the
scores at the end. The lowest score wins. To be fair,
chart on page 115.
everyone must have the same number of turns—
one, two, etc. If the group runs out of words and
wants to keep playing, have actors come up with
GRAMMAR TIP: Word order
their own words. Before starting, have them write
In all the examples of adverbs of manner on this
them down and give them to the scorekeeper.
page, the adverb comes after the verb and at
the end of the sentence. Some students might
have seen the adverb used in other parts of the
GRAMMAR TIP: Disappearing adverbs
sentence; for example:
© National Geographic Learning
English speakers frequently use adjectives when an
You picked up a pen slowly. / You slowly picked up
adverb is called for. Common examples:
the pen. / Slowly, you picked up the pen.
• I did good on the test. I did well on the test.
The word order in these other sentences is also
• We played bad. We played badly.
possible, but at this level it’s advisable to introduce
one correct way until students are more confident
Students should learn the grammatically correct use
with the grammar. However, if students ask about
of adverbs, but should also be aware that they will
word order, you can present other options.
often hear adjectives used in place of adverbs.

115a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 78 30/04/21 1:33 PM

──────── Page 227 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the sentences from the story about Thunder and Lightning. In each sentence, underline the
word that describes how the action was done.

His mother ran quickly. She shouted angrily. Lightning stopped suddenly.

B Read the Unit 8, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

ADVERBS OF MANNER

Cinderella smiled shyly at the prince. Adverbs of manner describe how something is done.
Many end in -ly, and they often come after a verb.

He opened the door quietly.    When there is an object (a noun or pronoun) after the verb,
She answered the question correctly. the adverb usually comes at the end of the sentence.

He studied hard for the exam.    Some adverbs of manner don’t end in -ly.
They didn’t do well in school.    Remember, use well, not good, as an adverb.
They didn’t do good in school.

She was different from other children. Adjectives, not adverbs, come after stative verbs (be, have,
You seem unhappy.    hear, know, seem, etc.).

C Circle the correct words to complete the profile. Then take turns reading the story aloud in pairs.

As a child in the UK, Daniel Tammet was (1.) different /
differently from other children. As a boy, he liked to play
alone, and people thought that he acted (2.) strange /
strangely. In school, he struggled to do (3.) good / well.
To many of his classmates, Daniel seemed (4.) unusual /
unusually, and they laughed at him. This hurt Daniel
(5.) deep / deeply, and he became very (6.) shy / shyly.

As a teenager, Daniel discovered he had an incredible ability.
He could solve difficult math problems almost (7.) instant /
instantly. He also discovered another talent: he could learn
to speak a language very (8.) quick / quickly. Today, he is
(9.) fluent / fluently in ten languages.

As an adult, Daniel overcame his shyness. He wrote a number of books in which he speaks
(10.) eloquent1 / eloquently about his life and ideas.

1An eloquent speaker talks in a clear and powerful way.

D Get into small groups. Add four verbs and two adverbs to the chart below.
© National Geographic Learning
Verbs Adverbs
E Choose a verb and an adverb. Then act
out the combination. Can your group guess
climb    talk angrily    quietly
what you’re doing? Take turns with the
dance    carefully    shyly
people in your group.
laugh    happily    suddenly
run    nervously
You’re singing nervously!
sing    quickly

Lesson B | 115

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 79 30/04/21 1:33 PM

──────── Page 228 ────────

The Black Forest in Germany is
the setting for many of Grimm’s
famous fairy tales.

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Work in pairs. You will each have a different fairy tale picture, one traditional and one modern. Take
turns describing what you see. As you describe your picture and listen to your partner, write down any
differences between the two pictures. (There are at least seven.) Do not look at your partner’s picture!

Student A: Look at the picture on page 211 and describe the traditional fairy tale.

Student B: Look at the picture on page 212 and describe the modern fairy tale.

B Now look at both pictures and check the notes you made about the differences. Did you find them
all? Check your answers at the bottom of the page.

C In pairs, discuss the questions.
1. What do you think happens in each fairy tale? 2. How do you think the stories will end?

D WRITING Write a short modern fairy tale (100–150 words). You have two options:
Option 1: Think of a traditional fairy tale or myth from your country. Rewrite this story as a modern
fairy tale in the 21st century.

Option 2: Write a modern fairy tale based on Student B’s picture in the appendix. Use the ideas in
the picture and add your own ideas.

In your story, use the simple past and past continuous, and at least three adverbs of manner.
Turn to the Unit 8 Writing appendix to see an example.

E When you are ready, exchange stories with a partner. Check the verbs and adverbs in the story,
and circle any mistakes.

F Work in groups and take turns telling your stories. When you read    Once upon a
time, there was a
your story aloud, remember to add pauses and read with feeling.
princess . . .

8B GOALS Now I can . . .
© National Geographic Learning
1. Yes, I can.
Talk about the meaning of stories
2. Mostly, yes.
Describe how something is done
3. Not yet.

in the country, not near other buildings. / The castle is part of a city.
looking at his phone. 6. The characters are wearing fairy-tale clothing. / The characters are wearing modern clothing. 7. The castle is
The princess is riding a motorcycle to meet the prince. 5. The prince is riding a horse to save the princess. / The prince is in the tower
looks evil. / The wolf works at the door of the nightclub (and wears sunglasses). 4. The princess is in the tower, brushing her hair. /
1. It’s daytime. / It’s nighttime. 2. The princess lives in the castle. / The castle is a nightclub. 3. The wolf is guarding the castle and

116 | UNIT 8

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 80 30/04/21 1:33 PM

──────── Page 229 ────────

stories, then they should choose option 2 and
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
use the picture to help them. Encourage them to
plan their story before writing by listing details
WARM-UP 5–10 min
for each of these: the main characters, the place
Write the following words around the board: princess,
and the time of day, an unexpected event that
wolf, tower, top of a hill, doorway, road, horse. Tell
happens, the challenge that this creates, how the
students that these words all come from a fairy tale.
main character overcomes it. Students should
Ask, What do you think happens in the story? As a
then write their stories either during class or for
class, students should suggest an idea for the story
homework. Remind them to write it using the
using all the words on the board. (Note that they will
simple past and past continuous, and to include
reuse these words in the next exercise.)
adverbs of manner.

A Work in pairs. You will each have a different fairy
E When you are ready, exchange stories with a
tale picture, one traditional and one modern. Take
partner. Check the verbs and adverbs in the story,
turns describing what you see. As you describe
and circle any mistakes. 20–30 min
your picture and listen to your partner, write down
any differences between the two pictures. (There
As well as checking the verbs and adverbs and
are at least seven.) Do not look at your partner’s
circling mistakes, students could also comment on
picture! 20 min
the story itself. Refer students back to the text in A
on page 111, which lists the five criteria that occur
Assign the A-B pairs and have students turn
in most fairy tales. Students could identify which of
to either page 211 or 212. Students must not
those five criteria occur in their partner’s story.
look at their partner’s picture. Have them take
turns describing what is happening. Naturally,
students will use present forms (not past) for
F Work in groups and take turns telling your stories.
this part of the task, as they are describing
When you read your story aloud, remember to
pictures. They need to find a minimum of seven
add pauses and read with feeling. 20–25 min
differences, so they can also ask each other
Having written their stories, students should
questions such as, What is she wearing? Where
practice reading their story to themselves and
is the prince?
think about where they will pause (using the
technique in E on page 114) or change their
B Now look at both pictures and check the notes
voice to add feeling. Then put students into
you made about the differences. Did you find
groups of three or four and have each student
them all? Check your answers at the bottom of
read their story aloud.
the page. 5 min
Diagnostics
Have students compare their pictures and lists of
Check students’ competencies as follows:
differences before they read the list of suggested
answers at the bottom of page 116. Monitor
• Are students able to talk about the meaning of
students’ progress, but don’t interrupt unless
a story?
they need your help with new vocabulary.
• Are they able to write a short modern fairy tale?
• Can they tell their stories with pauses and
C In pairs, discuss the questions. 15 min
feeling?
Have the same pairs now talk about the traditional
fairy tale and then the modern fairy tale. Students
can speculate about what happens and then
8B
GOALS
predict the endings. After about ten minutes,
Review students’ self-assessment in the goals
invite pairs to describe their new versions of the
box. Point out to students where they learned
stories and see how different they are.
these skills in the unit. If they rated their ability
below Yes, I can, they can turn back to those
© National Geographic Learning
D WRITING Write a short modern fairy tale
pages and review the exercises.
(100–150 words). You have two options:
Talk about the meaning of stories:
30–40 min
Vocabulary, page 111, A–B; Reading,
If students talked about fairy tales and myths
page 113, A–D; Listening, page 114, A–D
from their own country earlier in the unit, then
Describe how something is done: Grammar,
suggest that they could choose option 1. If you
page 115, A–E; Active English, page 116,
think your students don’t know many traditional
D–E

Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson B | 116a

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 81 30/04/21 1:33 PM

──────── Page 230 ────────

B Watch interviews with four National Geographic
GLOBAL VOICES
Explorers and photographers. Circle the answers
they give to the questions below. There is more
WARM-UP 5 min
than one correct answer for each question.
Write this famous expression on the board: A picture
10–15 min
paints a thousand words. Ask students to say
The four speakers talk at a fairly natural speed,
what they think it means and if they have a similar
so students might find the video challenging to
expression in their own language. Elicit the idea
understand at first. However, they don’t have to
that sometimes a good picture can tell us more than
listen for and understand every word. Instead,
trying to describe it in words, or that an image can
they are listening for the main information in the
have many different meanings to different people.
four questions. Point out that there is more than
one answer for each question. To make it easier,
ABOUT THE VIDEO
you could even tell them how many answers
In this Global Voices video, four National
there are per question (e.g., 1 has three answers,
Geographic Explorers talk about their work and,
2 has two, 3 has two, and 4 has two). Play the
in particular, the importance of storytelling in their
video twice and, on the second viewing, pause it
work through the photographs they take and the
after each section to help check the answers.
messages they want to deliver. The video includes
examples of photographs they have taken that
C Read the sentences from the video and guess
illustrate their explanations.
the missing words. Then watch again and check.
10 min
A There is an expression in English: Every picture
Give time for students to read the questions and
tells a story. Do you have a similar expression in
guess missing words. They can discuss their
your language? Look at the photo at the bottom
guesses in pairs or groups. Then play the video
of the page. What story do you think it tells?
and check.
5–10 min

If you did the Warm-Up above, explain that here
D In pairs, look through the photos in this book and
is another similar expression about pictures.
choose one that you find interesting. Answer the
Discuss its meaning and then discuss the
questions about the photo. 20–30 min
photo at the bottom of the page. Students may
Give students time to flip through the pages of
have different ideas about the story behind it.
World Link and pick out a photo that interests
Ask if anyone knows about or has ever seen
them. They need to choose a photo that they
a manatee. If not, explain that manatees are
think tells a story, perhaps about the people
sometimes called “sea cows” because of
or places in it. The large photo on the first two
their size and that they eat water grasses. In
pages of every unit in World Link is always
the water, they are slow, beautiful swimmers.
striking, so students could start by looking
As marine mammals, they must come to the
at each of those images in all 12 units. They
surface of the water to breathe air. Unfortunately,
need to make notes about what story they think
the population of manatees in the world is
the photo is telling and how it does this (e.g.,
decreasing because of hunting by humans. So
through color, surprise, humor, emotion, etc.).
perhaps the photographer, Jennifer Adler, wants
After a while, invite pairs to show the picture they
to tell the story of the manatees so people will
have chosen and to say why.
protect them.

EXTRA! Tell your own story with a picture
EXTRA! Watch and write the question
10–20 min
10–15 min
Many of your students probably take their own
With books closed, one option is to play the entire
photos with a phone. You could ask them to choose
video first so that students become familiar with
one of their favorites, bring it to class, and tell the
the general topic. As a basic task, they could write
story behind it. Alternatively, ask them to take a
down the four questions that the explorers answer.
© National Geographic Learningphoto for homework that tells a story in some way;
If you do this viewing task, have students read
for example, perhaps it shows a special place or
and understand the meaning of impactful in the
someone who is important in their life.
Word Bank first. Afterwards, tell students the four
questions are in exercise B so they can compare
their answers.

117a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 8, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 82 30/04/21 1:33 PM

──────── Page 231 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES

A There is an expression in English: Every picture tells a story. Do you have a similar expression in
your language? Look at the photo at the bottom of the page. What story do you think it tells?

B Watch interviews with four National Geographic Explorers and
WORD BANK
photographers. Circle the answers they give to the questions below.
diversity having many
There is more than one correct answer for each question.
different forms, types,
ideas, cultures
1. What does every story need?
If something is impactful
a. Surprise and humor c. Emotion
(adj), it affects or changes
b. Ancient places d. Amazing characters
someone or something in
an important way.
2. How do you tell a story impactfully?
impactfully (adv)
a. With fairy tales c. With beauty and challenges

b. With photography and video d. With good and bad characters

3. What is the story behind an important photo you have taken?
a. Scientists were releasing red dye into the water.

b. A scientist was studying volcanoes in Guatemala.

c. Scientists were studying climate change.

4. How do you think storytelling will change in the next five to ten years?
a. People will tell fewer stories. c. There will be more stories from around the world.

b. There will be more diversity.

C Read the sentences from the video and guess the missing words. Then watch again and check.
learn
1. “You want to make sure that they look at it and say, ‘Wow, I want to more.’”
Stories
2. “ always need to take you on some kind of journey.”
friends
3. “. . . have someone that your audience can feel like they could be with.”
connect
4. “There’s still going to be a huge need for stories that us.”

D In pairs, look through the photos in this book and choose one that you find interesting. Answer the
questions about the photo.

1. What story is the photographer telling us? 2. How does the photo tell the story?
Then tell the class about the photo you chose.

© National Geographic Learning
National Geographic Explorer
Jennifer Adler uses her photos
to teach people about Florida’s
freshwater springs and the
animals that live there, like
this manatee.

Lesson B | 117

WLTB_L2_U08_ptg01.indd 83 30/04/21 1:33 PM

──────── Page 232 ────────

UNIT 9

ABOUT THE PHOTO
9
The photo shows a scientist
working on a volcano. These
types of scientists are called
WORK
volcanologists and they have to
wear special suits that protect
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
against the extreme heat. In
QUESTIONS.
this photo, the volcanologist is
1. What job does this person do?
collecting samples of lava from
He / she is a scientist.
2. What adjectives describe this job (for example,
the Mount Etna volcano. Mount
interesting, dangerous)? Give reasons for your
Etna is on the east coast of Sicily,
answers.
in Italy, and it is one of the world’s
most active volcanoes.
WARM-UP VIDEO

A You are going to watch a video about working
INTRODUCE THE THEME
as a volcanologist. This is a scientist who
studies volcanoes. In pairs, say three things
In this unit, students explore the
you think you will see.
concept of work. The language in
the two lessons supports aspects
B Watch the video and check your three
of communicating on this theme,
predictions from A.
including describing a job and
the qualities needed to do a job
C Read the sentences from the video and guess
the missing words. Then watch the video again
well, having a job interview, and
and check.
talking about how long one has
ot
1. “These are n people who
done something.
stay in their lab.”

2. “These are people who really go out and
In Lesson A, students talk about
ook
l at things . . .”
the skills and qualities for jobs.
est
3. “This is the b place in the
They also practice the listening
world to camp . . .”
utside
strategies of listening for key
4. “. . . you are o , in the outdoors.”
angerous
words and making and checking
5. “The mountain is really d .”
predictions. Finally, they learn
6. “In most places of the world, it’s not a
hazard* to the general population; it’s a
how to ask and answer job
hazard to volcanologists who are going
interview questions, including
lose
c to the volcano . . .”
talking about experience and how
*A hazard is something that is dangerous.
long they have done something.
D What other dangerous jobs do you know? Why
In Lesson B, students learn
are they dangerous? Make a list in pairs.
vocabulary for describing jobs.
They read about Asher Jay, an
artist and activist, practicing the
reading strategies of making
predictions, identifying main
ideas, scanning for details, and
inferring information. Finally, they
other groups listen and add any
previous classes and helps you
write a formal cover email to
jobs missing from the list. This
gauge how much extra help they
apply for a job.
should be a review exercise, as
will need throughout this unit.
students at this level will know
quite a few jobs; however, be
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Look at the photo. Answer the
© National Geographic Learning
prepared to help out with the
questions. 5 min
With books closed, write Jobs on
pronunciation of these words.
the board. Put students into small
Ask students to look at the photo
groups and tell them they have
and read the caption. Answer
two minutes to list as many types
the first question as a class and
TEACHING TIP: Find out what
of jobs as possible. One student
then ask students to work on their
students know
needs to write the jobs down.
own and think of three adjectives
Use Warm-Up exercises to find
Stop everyone after two minutes
that describe the job. Then have
out what vocabulary students
and ask each group to report
students compare their adjectives
already know in connection with
back how many jobs they thought
with a partner, and finally share
the unit topic. It’s a chance to
of. The group with the most jobs
their answers with the class.
review language taught in their
should read them all aloud while

118 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 9

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 118 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 233 ────────

WARM-UP VIDEO
About the video
This video is called “Volcanology –
A life in the field.” It shows a
A scientist, wearing a special suit and
helmet to protect against very high
team of volcanologists and
temperatures, collects lava samples from
mountaineers working on
the Mount Etna volcano in Italy.
the Santa Maria volcano in
Guatemala and it includes a
series of interviews with different
volcanologists. They talk about
their work and the dangers of
their job.

Warm-Up
Elicit from students the names
of volcanoes around the world
that are famous. Write the names
of the volcanoes on the board.
Assign students to pairs and have
them list things they know about
the volcanoes.

A You are going to watch a
video about working as a
volcanologist. This is a scientist
who studies volcanoes. In
pairs, say three things you
think you will see. 10 min
Based on the photo of a
volcanologist, students should
be able to say things they see
(e.g., lava, volcano, smoke,
special suits), but encourage
them to also speculate on
what else might happen in
the video. Invite ideas from
students and write them on
Lesson A    Lesson B
GOALS
the board. Provide and pre-
/ Discuss skills and qualities for a job / Describe a job
teach any vocabulary that
/ Interview for a job    / Talk about your past experience
students need to make their
predictions.

C Read the sentences from the
D What other dangerous jobs
B Watch the video and check
video and guess the missing
do you know? Why are they
your three predictions from A.
words. Then watch the video
dangerous? Make a list in
10 min
again and check. 10–15 min
pairs. 5–10 min
The delivery and level of some
Either have students try to
Assign students to pairs. Ask
© National Geographic Learning
language in this video is quite
predict the missing words and
students to think of jobs that
challenging, so for this first
then watch or, alternatively,
are dangerous. You could tell
viewing, ask students to focus
play the video once and have
them to refer back to the lists
on what they can see in the
them complete the sentences.
of jobs they brainstormed in
video and on whether their
Then play the video again
the Warm-Up. They should
predictions from A are correct.
and pause after each relevant
also write notes on why the job
sentence so students can
is dangerous. When students
check their answers.
report back on their jobs to the
class, they should say what is
dangerous about them.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 9 | 119

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 119 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 234 ────────

9A SKILLS AND QUALITIES

VOCABULARY

A Read about the job. Do you think you could be a paramedic? Why or why not?

I’m a paramedic. I give medical help in an
emergency. You have to be responsible
Rahul Singh is a paramedic
to do this job. Each day is different, so you
in Toronto, Canada.
have to be flexible, too.

I report to work at 5:30 am. I’m a punctual
person, so the early start isn’t a problem.

Some people work independently, but not
me. I’m part of a team that includes a driver
and another paramedic. The driver knows
the most efficient ways to get around, and
my colleague and I are knowledgeable
about medical problems.

Our team tries to approach people in a personable way, even if they are confused or angry.
And when people are injured, we are cautious when moving them into the ambulance.

I think I’m pretty adventurous, and this job is good for someone who isn’t afraid of new
experiences. People also say I’m courageous to face these difficult situations. I say I’m just
doing my job.

B Match the words in blue to the words or phrases with a similar meaning.
ACADEMIC SKILL
Use a dictionary.
Word forms
responsible
1. reliable:
When you learn a new
courageous    word, use a dictionary
2. brave:
to check its other forms
flexible
3. changes easily:
so you can use them
independently
correctly; for example,
4. by yourself:
reliable (adj)
personable
5. friendly:
reliability (n)
cautious
6. careful:
knowledgeable
7. knows a lot:
adventurous
8. likes risks:
P u n c t u a l
punctual
9. on time:
b r A v e
© National Geographic Learningefficient
10. works quickly / easily:
p e R s o n a b l e
c A u t i o u s
C Look at the graphic. The letters in the word paramedic are used
to write other words describing skills and qualities needed for
M
that job. In pairs, make a similar graphic about a different job.
f l E x i b l e
Then show it to the class.
D
r e l I a b l e
C
120 | UNIT 9

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 120 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 235 ────────

PRONUNCIATION TIP: Pronunciation in
9A SKILLS AND QUALITIES
dictionaries

A good dictionary will include a transcription of
VOCABULARY
the word using phonemic script, with the stressed
syllable indicated with this symbol ' in front of it, like
WARM-UP 5 min
this:
With books closed, ask students to name jobs in the
healthcare industry. If they don’t know the names
flexible /' fl ksәbәl/, responsible /rә'spansәbәl/,
of all the jobs, they can describe them. Write the
efficient / 'fı∫әnt/, independent / ındә'p ndәnt/,
personable /'p    '
names they know on the board. If you wish, tell
зrsәnәbәl/, knowledgeable
them the missing names or have them find out for
/'n lıd әbәl/, adventurous /æd'v nt∫әrәs/,
the next class.
courageous /kә'reıd әs/, cautious /'k ∫әs/.

If your students are using online dictionaries, they
A Read about the job. Do you think you could be a
will probably be able to click on the word and hear
paramedic? Why or why not? 5–8 min
it being pronounced. Encourage students to listen
Tell students to look at the photo. Ask students
and repeat when using this type of dictionary.
where they think the man is and if they know
what the vehicle is called. Ask, What is it used
for? Have students read the text. Ask if they
C Look at the graphic. The letters in the word
know anyone who works as a paramedic. Does
paramedic are used to write other words
the person like the job? Assign students to pairs.
describing skills and qualities needed for that job.
Have them tell each other if they could do this
In pairs, make a similar graphic about a different
job and why or why not.
job. Then show it to the class. 10–15 min
The graphic shown on the page is sometimes
called an acrostic. It’s a word puzzle in which
B Match the words in blue to the words or phrases
students have to use every letter in the word to
with a similar meaning. Use a dictionary. 15 min
form other words, in this case adjectives that
When trying to understand the meaning of
describe the job. Let students study it and ask
the words, encourage students to guess the
any questions. You could also do one together
meaning from context and ask others in the
on the board as a class; for example, write
class. If necessary, they can refer to their
the word WAITER and brainstorm adjectives
dictionary, but they should attempt to match the
to run off each letter. Note that students may
words first without one. Do a class check when
choose jobs with lots of letters, so you can limit
students have finished.
the task to writing five adjectives only for each
job. So that students can share their words
VOCABULARY TIP: Synonyms
afterwards, encourage them to write the graphic
on a large piece of paper and to use different
Point out to students that learning synonyms (as in
colored pens or fonts if possible. As students
B) for words they already know helps them broaden
work on this, monitor their progress and make
their vocabulary, which makes them more proficient
suggestions for possible words. Also listen for
language users.
how they pronounce the adjectives, and correct
if necessary.
TEACHING OPTION
Have students read the Academic Skill note about
ONLINE OPTION
learning all forms of a word when you learn it.
You can create similar graphics with jobs and
For further practice, you could write the following
adjectives using the whiteboard function of your
adjectives from B on the board and have students
online platform. Write a job on the whiteboard and
write the noun forms (listed below). Also have
then let students type in new adjectives on the
them underline the stressed syllable in each, as it
screen.
sometimes changes for different forms:
© National Geographic Learning
reliable (adj) – reliability (n)
MORE WORDS: Job qualities
responsible (adj) – responsibility (n)
caring    motivated
courageous (adj) – courage (n)
cooperative    organized
flexible (adj) – flexibility (n)
creative    outgoing
independent (adj) – independence (n)
efficient    positive
knowledgeable (adj) – knowledge (n)
helpful    thorough

adventurous (adj) – adventure (n)

Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson A | 120a

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 120 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 236 ────────

Make and check predictions. Remind students
LISTENING
that predicting content before listening (or
reading) helps them be more prepared for what
WARM-UP 5 min
they are going to hear (or read), as they will
Ask students about the hardest jobs they’ve ever
have activated prior knowledge of the topic
had (or that someone they know has ever had). Ask,
and language related to it. Checking these
Why was the job hard? Was it the work? the people?
predictions after they have listened (or read)
the place?
enables them to see that predicting is useful, or
if their prediction wasn’t correct, to analyze why
A In pairs, look at the three jobs in the photos
the answer was not what they had predicted.
above and rank them from 1 (most challenging)
to 3 (least challenging). Give reasons for your
D In groups, make a list of the pros (good things)
answers. 10–15 min
and cons (bad things) for each of the three jobs.
Ask students to look at the three photos and
Use information from the speakers and your own
job titles. Ask the class to say some things
ideas. Then decide which of the three jobs you
they think these people do in their job. Don’t
would choose. 10 min
go into too much detail, as students learn more
To help the groups organize their ideas, assign
about the jobs in the audio, but elicit sentences
one person in each group to write down their
such as: A flight attendant tells you about
group’s ideas. Draw this table on the board
safety on the plane. / A travel journalist visits
and ask them to copy it and write their notes
different countries and writes about them. / An
in it. Note that the table below includes some
international aid worker helps people in other
suggested answers. Do not add these until the
countries. Next, put students into pairs and
end of the lesson when checking everyone’s
have them rank the jobs by the challenge. When
ideas.
students provide feedback to the class on how
they ranked them, they should give reasons for
Pros Cons
their answers.
Flight    Travel overseas Tiring work
attendant
Meet new    Difficult
B Listen for key words. Listen to three people
people    passengers
talking about their jobs. Write the correct job for
Travel    Travel around    Not well paid
each speaker. Then write the adjectives in blue
journalist    the world
from the previous page that you hear for each job.
Never at home
58 10 min
Visit interesting
One option is to break this listening task into two
places
parts and play the audio twice. The first time,
Aid worker Help people    Stressful
play the audio and ask students to write down
Work in a team Might be
the three jobs. Then play the audio a second
dangerous
time and ask students to listen for the adjectives
used. With a stronger class, play the audio
once and have students write the job and the
TEACHING TIP: Handing over
adjectives at the same time.
With an exercise like D, once a group has come up
with pros and cons, you can ask someone in the
Listen for key words. Sometimes when students
group to go to the board and have them fill in the
listen, they need to listen for the word itself, such
table. Then, if another group has more ideas, they
as listening for the actual adjectives in B. At the
can send someone to the board and write their pros
same time, they might need to infer information,
and cons. Rather than you asking for answers and
which means using the information they have
then writing them, handing the task over to students
and their background knowledge to work out
like this is a good way to develop their sense of
something that isn’t said directly.
© National Geographic Learningresponsibility for the learning process.
C Make and check predictions. Read the
sentences and circle T for true or F for false.
Then listen again and check your answers.
58 10–15 min

Have students read the sentences and ask about
any unknown vocabulary, though any difficult
vocabulary will probably have been introduced
on the previous vocabulary page. Then have
them circle T or F and compare their predictions
with a partner. Finally, play the audio again to
check the answers.

121a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 121 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 237 ────────

A flight attendant A travel journalist An international aid worker

LISTENING

A In pairs, look at the three jobs in the photos above and rank them from 1 (most challenging) to 3
(least challenging). Give reasons for your answers.

B Listen for key words. Listen to three people talking about their jobs. Write the correct job for each
speaker. Then write the adjectives in blue from the previous page that you hear for each job. 58
flight attendant
Job 1:
flexible, personable
Adjectives:
international aid worker
Job 2:
responsible, courageous
Adjectives:
travel journalist
Job 3:
adventurous, independent
Adjectives:

C Make and check predictions. Read the sentences and circle T for true or F for false. Then listen
again and check your answers. 58

Job 1:

1. It’s a fun and easy job. T F
2. You have a good social life. T F
3. You have to change your plans easily. T F
Job 2:

4. A lot of people apply for this job. T F
5. All the work is overseas. T F
6. You have to be reliable and brave. T F
Job 3:
© National Geographic Learning
7. You work by yourself a lot of the time. T F
8. You need to find new things to write about. T F

D In groups, make a list of the pros (good things) and cons (bad things) for each of the three jobs.
Use information from the speakers and your own ideas. Then decide which of the three jobs you
would choose.

One of the good things is that    Overall, I’d like
you travel overseas . . .    to be a . . .

But you don’t have a
good social life.
Lesson A | 121

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 121 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 238 ────────

SPEAKING
STUDENT BLOGGER
A Read the job advertisement. Then listen to
ZOOMA MAGAZINE
Ines’s interview and answer the questions
About the job:
below. 59
Zooma Magazine needs student bloggers who:
Simon: So, Ines, tell me a little about
• know a lot about pop culture.
yourself.
• have good writing skills.
Ines: Well, I’m a first-year student at City
• are punctual and can work independently.
University, and I’m majoring in
journalism.
APPLY NOW

Simon: And you’re working for your
school’s online newspaper, right?

Ines: Yeah. I write a blog. It focuses on pop culture, fashion, music—stuff like that.

Simon: How long have you worked there?

Ines: For about six months. I post an entry once a week.

Simon: Excellent. But if you work here, you’ll need to post every Tuesday and Friday—by noon.

Ines: No problem. I’m very punctual.

Simon: Great. Now, we need someone right away. When can you start?

Ines: On Monday.

Simon: Perfect. Let me talk to my boss, and I’ll be in touch with you later this week.

1. How does Ines discuss her abilities and experience? Underline the sentences in the conversation.
2. Is Ines the right person for the job? Why or why not?
Yes, Ines is the right person for the job because she’s majoring in journalism, she writes a blog about pop culture for her
school’s online newspaper, she’s punctual, and she can start the job right away.

B Practice the conversation in A
with a partner.
SPEAKING STRATEGY 60
Interviewing for a job
C Imagine that you’re applying
The interviewer The applicant
for the blogger job in A. With
Starting the Thanks for coming    It’s great to be here. /
a partner, add two more skills
interview    in today.    My pleasure.
or adjectives to the job ad and
I’m a student at . . .
Discussing    Tell me a little
role-play a new conversation.
I’m majoring in . . .
abilities    about yourself.
and    Can you (work
Use the Speaking Strategy to
Yes, I can. For example, . . .
experience    independently)?
help you. Then switch roles and
Yes, I am. For example, . . .
do the role play again.
Are you (punctual)?
Yes, I write one for my
Do you have any
school newspaper now.
experience (writing
D Perform your conversation for
a blog)?
another pair.
© National Geographic Learning
Ending the    Do you have any    Yes, I do. / No, I don’t think so.
interview    questions?
When can you start? Right away. / On Monday. /
Next week.
I’ll be in touch.    I look forward to hearing
from you.

122 | UNIT 9

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 122 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 239 ────────

deadline.) Also point out that Ines made points
SPEAKING
about herself, even if Simon didn’t ask. (Simon:
How long have you worked there? Ines: For about
WARM-UP 5–10 min
six months. I post an entry once a week.) This is
With books closed, ask students, Do you read
a great interview technique that students should
blogs? Which blogs do you read? What makes a
practice. Before speaking, students should add
good blog? Do you write a blog? If so, what about?
two more skills or adjectives to the job ad; for
Elicit answers and write any interesting information
example, they could add bullet points like:
on the board.
• have good knowledge of art and modern music
A Read the job advertisement. Then listen to Ines’s
• are enthusiastic and have a good sense of
interview and answer the questions below.
humor
59 5–10 min
Have students role-play their new conversations
Ask students to read the job ad for a blogger.
using the expressions and referring to the job ad.
Ask, Does the job sound interesting? Would you
If necessary, point out that the phrasal verb look
apply for it? Next, introduce the interview and
forward to takes the -ing form of the verb.
let students read the questions. Play the audio
once so students can listen and read. Have them
CULTURE TIP: Informal language in “formal”
complete question 1 by underlining sentences
situations
that refer to Ines’s abilities and experience. Then
play the audio again and have students decide in
Although this is a job interview, both people speak
pairs if Ines is the right person for the job, based
quite informally. Some workplaces are much less
on what she says and the information in the job
formal than others, even during a job interview.
ad. Follow up with the whole class.
Simon seems to prefer informality, and Ines
takes her cue from him. In fact, in many business
situations, Canadians and Americans prefer to
CULTURE TIP: Pop culture
maintain a casual tone. They feel it helps everyone
The idea of pop culture began in the US and Europe
relax and do better work.
in the sixties. It referred to popular culture such
as music, art, fashion, TV, and radio. Nowadays,
pop culture includes other types of media such
D Perform your conversation for another pair.
as YouTube and social media. It has also spread
15–20 min
across the world, and popular youth cultures such
After pair A performs, pair B should comment
as K-pop from South Korea are good examples of
on one thing that was especially good. Then the
modern pop culture.
pairs should exchange roles.

B Practice the conversation in A with a partner.
TEACHING TIP: Partner work
10–15 min
It’s easy for students to work with the same partner
Before students practice, you could play each
throughout the course, but it’s important sometimes
segment of the conversation and have students
to mix students up so they can work with new
repeat it. Have students read the conversation
people. Here are some ideas of how to break
and then exchange roles and repeat it.
students up:

1. Students with the same first initials work together.
C Imagine that you’re applying for the blogger
2. Students wearing the same colors work together.
job in A. With a partner, add two more skills
or adjectives to the job ad and role-play a new
3. Students line up by age, and the youngest works
conversation. Use the Speaking Strategy to help
with the oldest (if appropriate).
you. Then switch roles and do the role play again.
4. Students with birthdays in the same month or
15–25 min
© National Geographic Learningclose together.
Read the expressions in the Speaking Strategy
and have students repeat with you. Ask two
students to read them as an interviewer and
an applicant. Point out that applicants are
expected to provide examples of their qualities.
What shows that they’re punctual, for example?
(They’re never late for work, they never miss a

Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson A | 122a

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 122 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 240 ────────

C PRONUNCIATION: Reduced for in time
GRAMMAR
expressions Listen and complete the sentences
with a time expression. Then practice saying the
WARM-UP 5 min
sentences with a partner. 62 10 min
Ask students if they have ever changed jobs. Ask,
Have students read the sentences and predict
How many times? In the US, workers between the
what word would complete it. Then play the
ages of 18 and 38 change jobs an average of ten
audio for students to complete them. Call on
times. If your students don’t work, ask them if they
individual students to share the answers. Have
have ever changed houses or schools. Listen to
students practice the sentences with a partner,
how your students answer the questions and gauge
encouraging them to use their own information.
whether they have some awareness of the present
Call on individual students to say one of the
perfect. At this level, students might have seen it
sentences.
but be less confident about using it. Write
(or rewrite) one of your student’s answers on the
board using the present perfect and point out to the
D Use the phrases below to write questions in the
class how we use this verb form to talk about past
present perfect with how long. 10 min
experiences.
Go over the items with the class, then have
students write the questions individually. Refer
A Read the Unit 9, Lesson A Grammar Reference
them back to the chart as necessary. Check the
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
questions with the class and write them on the
the exercises below. 20–30 min
board.
Go over the examples in the chart. Point out the
use of the verb have and the form of the main
TEACHING TIP: Dictionaries
verb work (past participle). Focus students’
Students can find the participial forms of verbs in
attention on the time expressions after for and
a learner’s dictionary. For example, when a student
since in each answer. For the first answer in
looks up the word go, the different verb forms,
the chart, draw a timeline on the board to help
including gone as the past participle form, are
students understand the use of the present
usually given with the definition.
perfect to express an action that began in the
past and continues in the present.

TEACHING TIP: Fast finishers
X
Past Present
In any class with more than one student, you will
have some students that finish a task more quickly
Ask students the questions in the chart; for
than others. This doesn’t guarantee that their
example, Where do you work? How long have
answers are correct, so you always need to check
you worked there? Ask similar questions; for
that they have completed the exercise properly.
example, How long have you studied here?
However, if their answers are correct and other
How long have you lived in (name of place)?
students are still working, think of extension tasks
Then have students complete the exercises on
for these fast-finishing students to do. For example,
page 203. The grammar charts on page 202
in D, you could ask students to write two more
include further examples, usage notes, and a
questions of their own using How long.
list of the base, simple past, and past participle
forms of many common verbs, expanding
on the information in the chart on page 123.
E Use the questions in D to interview three of your
Alternatively, you could have students complete
classmates. Write their answers in the chart
the exercises for homework the day before and
using for or since. Who has done each thing the
check understanding during class.
longest? Share your results with the class.
10–15 min
B PRONUNCIATION: Reduced for in time
Copy the chart onto the board and model the
expressions Say the first question and answer in
© National Geographic Learning
exercise with a student. Ask the student the
the grammar chart above. Then listen and repeat.
questions in D and write his or her answers in the
61 5–10 min
chart. Then have a different student ask you the
questions and write your answers in his or her
Say the question and have students repeat,
chart. Have students walk around the classroom
then say the answer and have them repeat.
interviewing different people, or if space is
Play the audio and have students repeat again.
limited, assign students to groups of four and
Help students notice how for is reduced. Have
have them interview each other. Go over the
students practice the question and answer with
results with the class to find out who has done
a partner.
each activity the longest.

123a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 123 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 241 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 9, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

THE PRESENT PERFECT

Question Response

How long have you worked there? (I’ve worked there) for two years.

How long has she worked there? (She’s worked there) since 2012.

You can use the present perfect (have / has + past participle) to talk about events that started
in the past and continue into the present. Note that many past participles are irregular.
Use for + a length of time (for ten minutes, for the summer, for two years, for a while).
Use since + a point in time (since 2014, since last September, since I was a child).

B PRONUNCIATION: Reduced for in time expressions Say the first question and answer in the
grammar chart above. Then listen and repeat. 61

C PRONUNCIATION: Reduced for in time expressions Listen and complete the sentences with a
time expression. Then practice saying the sentences with a partner. 62
years    six hours
1. I’ve lived in the same city for .    3. I haven’t eaten for .
a week
2. He hasn’t been in class for .

D Use the phrases below to write questions in the present perfect with how long.
How long have you gone to this school?
1. go to this school
How long have you studied English?
2. study English
How long have you known your best friend?
3. know your best friend
How long have you had the same hairstyle?
4. have the same hairstyle
How long have you lived in your current home?
5. live in your current home

E Use the questions in D to interview three of your classmates. Write their answers in the chart using
for or since. Who has done each thing the longest? Share your results with the class.

Name Question 1 Question 2 Question 3 Question 4 Question 5

© National Geographic Learning
Ian Simpson has worked
as a boat builder for
over 25 years.

Lesson A | 123

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 123 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 242 ────────

A camp counselor plays a game
with children at a summer camp
in Washington State (US).

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Read the qualities, abilities, and experience below. In your notebook, list the qualities, abilities, and
experience needed for these jobs: video-game tester, camp counselor, lifeguard, dog walker. You
can use the ideas in the box more than once. Add your own ideas, too.

Qualities Abilities / Experience
• a personable and energetic person who    be able to . . . have experience . . .
loves the outdoors    • swim well    • caring for animals
• an efficient person who is knowledgeable    • work flexible hours    • working with children
about computers    • walk long distances • playing video games
• flexible, patient, and kind to animals    • work independently • doing first aid
• an adventurous and responsible person    • speak English well

B Choose a job in A to apply for. Tell a
Interview questions
partner your choice. Then:
Name:
• Complete the questions according
to the job that your partner is
Job he or she is applying for:
applying for. Add your own idea
1. What do you do now? How long have you done it?
at the end. Use the questions to
interview your partner. Take turns.
2. Are you ? Give me an example.
(quality)
• Decide if your partner is good for
3. Can you ? Please explain.
the job. Why or why not?
(ability)
4. Do you have any experience ?
© National Geographic Learning(doing something)
Thanks for coming in today.    5. Your question: ?
So, tell me . . . what do you
do now?

9A GOALS Now I can . . .
1. Yes I can.
Discuss skills and qualities for a job
2. Mostly, yes.
Interview for a job
3. Not yet.

124 | UNIT 9

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 124 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 243 ────────

page 122. Afterwards, students should report
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
back on whether they think the person they
interviewed will make a good employee. During
WARM-UP 5–10 min
the role plays, monitor their use of language for
This is an exercise to review the vocabulary from
interviewing and use of the present perfect. Give
Lesson A. Ask one confident student to come to
feedback on this at the end.
the front of the class and sit with their back to the
board, looking out at everyone else. Then write one
LARGE CLASS OPTION
vocabulary word from page 120, such as punctual,
on the board. Invite individual students to define
As is sometimes done in real interviews, have three
the word without saying it. For example, they could
people interview each applicant. After the interview,
say something like, When you are always on time
have students confer to decide whether to hire the
for something. Have the student with their back to
interviewee or not.
the board guess the word. You can also set this up
as a team competition. Divide the class into two
ONLINE OPTION
teams and have one student from each team come
Students can interview each other using the
to the front. Write a word on the board and allow two
breakout room function. They could also record
minutes for the team to define the word and for the
themselves, if necessary, to review afterwards.
student to guess it. Then have the other team do
the same.

CULTURE TIP: Job interviews
EXTRA! Discussion questions 5 min
In many countries, interviews are an important
part of the job search process. Usually a company
With books closed, ask students where they (or
receives many letters and resumes and invites
people they know) look for jobs when they need
only a few for interviews. At the interview, the
one. Ask, Do you look online? In newspapers? In
representative of the company asks for more details
shop windows? Where else? Next, ask students,
about the applicant’s background and tries to get
What information do job ads include? Elicit ideas
a feeling for what kind of person the applicant is,
such as salary, hours, and location, but make sure
and whether he or she would be a good “fit” with
they also mention skills, qualities, and experience.
the company. The fit is often as important as the
applicant’s resume. There are many books and
websites that prepare applicants for job interviews,
A Read the qualities, abilities, and experience
and they all give similar advice: dress neatly, arrive
below. In your notebook, list the qualities, abilities,
on time, answer all questions completely, show
and experience needed for these jobs: videointerest in the position, and have knowledge of the
game tester, camp counselor, lifeguard, dog
company. They should be ready to explain what
walker. You can use the ideas in the box more
they can contribute to the company as well.
than once. Add your own ideas, too. 10 min
Tell students to draw the table from the book in
Diagnostics
their notebooks, with one side for listing qualities
Check students’ competencies as follows:
and one side for listing abilities and experience.
Then, for each of the four jobs, ask students to
• Are students able to list qualities and abilities for
write their ideas. Students can work together
a job?
in pairs on this task, but make sure it is not the
• Are they able to write and ask interview questions?
same partner they’ll interview in B. By the end of
• Can they talk about their past work experience?
this exercise, students should all have four short
job ads.

9A
GOALS
B Choose a job in A to apply for. Tell a partner your
choice. Then: 10–15 min
Review student’s self-assessment in the
© National Geographic Learning
Assign students to pairs. Ask each student
goals box. Point out to students where
to swap the four job ads they wrote in A with
they learned these skills in the unit. If they
their partner. Ask students to choose one of the
rated their ability below Yes, I can, they can
jobs and tell their partner. Next, working alone,
turn back to those pages and review the
students should prepare the interview questions
exercises.
based on the job. The interview notes are there
Discuss skills and qualities for a job:
to guide students while they are interviewing
Vocabulary, page 120, B–C; Listening,
their partner. They are free to make up other
page 121, B–D
questions, too. Before they start role-playing
Interview for a job: Speaking, page 122,
the job interviews, refer students back to the
A–D; Active English, page 124, A–B
list of expressions in the Speaking Strategy on

Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson A | 124a

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 124 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 244 ────────

LANGUAGE TIP: Antonyms
9B DREAM JOBS
In B, students match each word with its opposite
meaning. You could also teach students the word
VOCABULARY
antonym, which means an opposite word. When
students learn a new word, they should get into
WARM-UP 5–10 min
the habit of writing its antonym, if it has one, in
With books closed, tell students they are going
their notebooks. To indicate that it has an opposite
to read about some jobs that are not typical. Ask,
meaning, they could use the same symbol used in
How would you describe a “typical” job? Where
World Link, which is this symbol: .
do people do it? How many hours a week do they
work? What do they do during a typical work day?
How long do people stay in a typical job? Do they
EXTRA! Categorize the three-syllable words
like their job? Point out the lesson title and have
5–10 min
students explain what dream means here (ideal).
Tell students to identify all the words in B with
Remind students that we can also use dream to
three syllables and then categorize them into two
talk about our plans for the future (It is my dream to
word-stress patterns. Draw stress patterns on the
travel to India.), and about what happens when we
board, like those that follow, so students see where
sleep (I had a horrible dream last night, I woke up
the stressed syllable is: Ooo and oOo.
feeling scared!).
Then have them categorize the words like this:
A Read the article and answer the questions in
Ooo = glamorous, hazardous
pairs. 10 min
oOo = demanding, relaxing, exhausting, rewarding
Before students start reading, ask them to look at
To extend this exercise, students could also look
the photo at the bottom of the page and read the
back at the words on page 120 and add threecaption about a marine biologist. Ask students,
syllable words from there. Alternatively, you could
What skills and qualities do you think a marine
add more stress patterns to the board such as
biologist needs? Elicit and recycle a few words
oOoo (e.g., responsible, adventurous) and have
from Lesson A such as knowledgeable and
students identify more examples.
adventurous. Then have students read the text
about Emily Ashe, who describes meeting Dr.
Tierney Thys and, because of that, discovering
C For each answer in B, think of a different job;
her dream job. When students have answered
for example, being a nurse is a demanding job.
the three questions, they can compare their
Which job would you like to do? Which would you
answers with a partner and then check together
never do? Tell a partner. 5–10 min
as a class.
Tell students to copy the list of adjectives that
they wrote in B into their notebooks and then,
B Match the words in blue to the word or phrase
next to each word, write a job they think it
with the opposite meaning. 10 min
describes. Here are some examples:
Ask students to study the words in blue and
demanding = nurse
match them to the opposite word or phrase. If
well paid = accountant
necessary, they can use a dictionary, but they
should be able to do this task by guessing
glamorous = movie star
meaning from context and also referring to the
exhausting = builder
three definitions in the Word Bank.
rewarding = teacher
hazardous = police officer
TEACHING OPTION
Afterwards, you could also ask students to
You could also extend the exercise by having
categorize the words in two groups—those
students write jobs for the antonyms (e.g., badly
with positive meanings and those with negative
paid, dull, relaxing). When they have written their
meanings. In some cases, the answers are clear
© National Geographic Learningideas for jobs, ask students to compare their lists
(e.g., well paid is positive, dull is negative), but in
with a partner and discuss the two questions.
other cases students might disagree because it
depends on viewpoint; for example, some people
want a relaxing job, but others might prefer a job
that is going to be demanding in some way.

125a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 125 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 245 ────────

9B DREAM JOBSANIMALS

VOCABULARY

A Read the article and answer the questions in pairs.

In 2008, Emily Ashe traveled with her family on a National Geographic cruise to13P NEED HR
Mexico. On the ship, she met Dr. Tierney Thys, a famous marine biologist. Emily says,
“I remember listening to her talk about ocean sunfish and then seeing a picture of her
swimming next to one and thinking, ‘Wow, I could do that one day.’”

Being a marine biologist might sound like a glamorous job, but it’s also very demanding
and sometimes hazardous under the ocean. You spend long, exhausting periods of
time observing and studying sea life, and the work isn’t always well paid. But marine
biologists like Tierney often love their jobs; they usually educate people about the ocean,
which can be very rewarding.

Now, after meeting Tierney over a decade ago, Emily has graduated from Eckerd College
in St. Petersburg, Florida with a major in marine science. She hopes to follow in Tierney’s
footsteps,1 and teach kids and the public about marine ecosystems.2
1To follow in someone’s footsteps means to do the same thing as someone else.
2An ecosystem is the plants, animals, and environment in a particular area.

She met and listened to Dr. Tierney
1. Why did Emily want to become a marine biologist?
Thys talk about her experience as a marine biologist on a National Geographic cruise.
2. What do marine biologists do?
Marine biologists observe and study sea life. They also educate the public about the ocean.
3. How does Emily hope to “follow in Tierney’s footsteps”?
Emily hopes to become a marine biologist, and teach kids and the public about marine ecosystems.

B Match the words in blue to the word or phrase with the opposite meaning.
WORD BANK
exhausting
1. easy    demanding 4. relaxing
exhausting tiring
well paid    rewarding
hazardous dangerous
2. badly paid 5. unsatisfying
glamorous exciting and
glamorous    hazardous
3. dull    6. safe
attractive

C For each answer in B, think of a different job; for example, being a nurse is a demanding job. Which
job would you like to do? Which would you never do? Tell a partner.

© National Geographic Learning

Dr. Tierney Thys is
a marine biologist.
She studies ocean
sunfish.

Lesson B | 125

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 125 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 246 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Play the game Job Alphabet.
This piece of art by Asher Jay is titled
Have students try to think of a job
“Where Do We Draw the Line?” It shows that
many animal habitats are disappearing as
for every letter of the alphabet.
cities grow and protected areas decrease.
Write the letters A through Z on
the board as a list, and then add
the jobs, starting with A. Give the
class one point for every job they
name. Alternatively, divide the
class into teams and see which
team can come up with the most
jobs within three minutes.

A Find these words in your
dictionary: job, career,
profession. How are they
similar? How is a career or
profession different from a job?
Tell a partner. 5–10 min
Have students look up the
words individually and then
discuss the questions with a
partner. Call on pairs to share
their answers. With students’
help, write a brief definition for
each word on the board. Note:
You can get a job, but you train
for a career or profession.

B Make predictions. Read the
title of the article and look at
the image. Guess: What does
a creative conservationist do?
Tell a partner. Then read the
first paragraph to check your
ASHER JAY:
ideas. 10 min
Have students look at the
CREATIVE
photo. Elicit ideas to describe
it. Assign students to pairs
CONSERVATIONIST
to read the title and to guess
126 | UNIT 9
what a creative conservationist
does. Share ideas as a class
before having students
read the first paragraph.
C Identify main ideas. Read
Identify main ideas. Remind
Then discuss whether their
the rest of the article. In which
students that they should
predictions were correct or not
paragraph can you find the
look for the main idea in
as a class.
answer to each question below?
each paragraph when they
© National Geographic Learning
Write the paragraph number
first read a text. Focusing on
Make predictions. Predicting
next to the question. 10 min
identifying main ideas first will
the topic before reading helps
help students with their general
Go over the questions with the
students activate knowledge
understanding of a text,
class, then have students read
and language (vocabulary and
providing them with a better
the text. Remind them to focus
grammar) that may be useful
framework for understanding
on identifying the main idea of
when they read. Consequently,
details.
each paragraph and not worry
they are more prepared
about details. Tell them to write
for what they are about to
the paragraph number for where
read, which will help their
each answer can be found.
understanding.

126 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 126 01/05/21 5:31 PM

──────── Page 247 ────────

D Check your answers in C with
a partner. Then take turns
1. Can your
paintings, she has created animated films about
asking and answering the four
passion1 also be
pollution3 in the oceans.
questions. 10 min
your profession?
4. Asher loves what she does, but working
Assign students to pairs to
For “creative
with nature can still result in unexpected and
compare their answers in C.
conservationist” Asher
hazardous experiences. One night, while she
Jay, the answer is yes.
Then have them ask and
was in Africa for work, she woke up and heard
A conservationist is a
She is an artist, writer,
person who works to
answer the questions with
lions walking around her tent. Asher was
protect the environment.
and activist. She uses
their partner. Point out that this
scared, but the experience was still rewarding.
her art to tell people about issues that affect
“Nature is a . . . tutor,” she says, “and the
time they need to read more
animals around the world, like the illegal ivory
learning never stops.”
carefully and focus on the
trade and habitat loss.
details. Check answers with
5. On a typical day, Asher spends a lot of time
2. Asher was born in India in 1985 and was
working on her art, which includes paintings,
the class.
raised around the world to be a global citizen.
billboards, films, and sculptures. But anything
She now lives in New York. She has been
can happen, and each day is unpredictable, so
2 about wildlife since she was a child.
passionate
TEACHING OPTION:
Asher has to be flexible. “I never know what’s
As a girl, she often found sick animals and
Role play
next for me,” she explains.
brought them home to care for them. Her
13P NEED HR
6. Asher Jay has turned her love for art and
When students ask and answer
mother taught her that all life has a right to exist.
animals into a career. She says there are many
the questions in D, they could
3. Now, working as an artist, everything Asher
ways to turn what you care about into a job.
do it as a role play in which one
does in her creative work is to help conservation.
So, what are you passionate about? 63
student is the journalist and the
For example, she spent two months traveling in
1A passion (n) is something you love or feel strongly about.
Africa, and she collected garbage on her travels.
other student answers as if she /
2If you are passionate (adj) about something, you care
She took the garbage back to New York and
he is Asher Jay.
about it a lot.
used it to create artwork about how the growth
3Pollution is something that makes land, air, or water
of human cities is affecting wildlife. As well as
dirty and unsafe.

E Scan for details; infer
information. What personal
A Find these words in your dictionary: job,
D Check your answers in C with a partner. Then
career, profession. How are they similar? How
take turns asking and answering the four
qualities does Asher Jay have
is a career or profession different from a job?
questions.
that make her good at her job?
Job, career, and profession are all related to
Tell a partner.
work. A job is something you do to make
Underline ideas in the reading.
money. A career is a series of jobs, usually in the same field. A
E Scan for details; infer information. What
profession is a job that requires some training or education.
Then think of two words not in
B Make predictions. Read the title of the article
personal qualities does Asher Jay have that
and look at the image. Guess: What does a
the reading. 10 min
make her good at her job? Underline ideas in
creative conservationist do? Tell a partner.
the reading. Then think of two words not in the
Elicit personal qualities and
Then read the first paragraph to check your
reading.
ideas.
write them on the board. Refer
students back to page 120 as
F Answer the question at the end of the last
C Identify main ideas. Read the rest of the
paragraph. Share your answer with a partner,
necessary. Then have students
article. In which paragraph can you find the
and he or she will suggest one possible job
read the text again and identify
answer to each question below? Write the
that matches your interests.
the qualities Asher Jay has that
paragraph number next to the question.
I love to play the guitar.
4
are mentioned explicitly. Check
a. Is Asher’s job ever dangerous?
I also like to play video
This piece of art by Asher Jay, titled
games.
2
these with the class. Remind
b. When did Asher first become
“Where Do We Draw the Line?”,
interested in animals?
Maybe you could
students about inferring
shows that many animal habitats
write music for
5
c. What’s a normal day like for Asher?
are disappearing as cities grow and
information. What qualities can
video games.
protected areas decrease.
3
d. What are some examples of Asher’s
they infer Asher Jay has? Elicit
work to help conservation?
other qualities they think she
Lesson B | 127
has. Write a list on the board.

Scan for details; infer
information. Remind students
F Answer the question at the end
that scanning means looking
of the last paragraph. Share
over a text quickly in order
your answer with a partner,
to find specific information.
and he or she will suggest one
© National Geographic Learning
Students shouldn’t read
possible job that matches your
in detail until they find the
interests. 5–10 min
information they are looking
Point out the question at the
for, and then read that
end of the paragraph. Have
sentence carefully. Inferring
students think about the
information means using the
question and write their answer.
information you have to guess
Assign them to pairs to suggest
something that isn’t said
jobs that match their partner’s
explicitly. Doing this helps
interests. Have each student
students achieve a deeper
tell the class the job they
understanding of the text.
suggested and explain why.
Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson B | 127

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 127 01/05/21 5:31 PM

──────── Page 248 ────────

LISTENING

A Make predictions. Look at the photo below. Gino is a storyboard artist. What do
you think he does? Tell a partner.

B Check predictions. Listen and circle the correct answer. 64
a. Gino illustrates comic books.
b. He draws pictures for children’s books.
c. He creates pictures of events in a movie.
d. He takes photos of famous actors.

C Listen for details. Read the sentences. Then listen and circle T for true or
F for false. Correct the false sentences in your notebook. 65

Gino says . . .
1. the best part of his job is meeting famous people. T F
Gino says the most rewarding part of the job is helping to make a movie.
Gino says he really enjoys it.
2. his job is dull sometimes. T F
He also says he is always learning something new.
3. working with a director is usually pretty easy. T F
Gino says the job can be demanding. The director often changes his mind.
4. it’s common to work long hours in his job. T F

i Notice how Gino
D Take notes. Gino gives people advice about becoming a storyboard artist.
uses the words first,
What advice does he give? Listen for key words and take notes. Then
second, and finally to
choose the correct answers below. 66
list his points.

a. Be knowledgeable about making movies.
b. Be able to work independently.
c. Be a good artist.
d. Be a hard worker.

E Does Gino’s job sound interesting to you? Why or why not? Tell a partner.

Some storyboard artists
use pencil and paper,
while others draw
on the computer.

© National Geographic Learning

128 | UNIT 9

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 128 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 249 ────────

listening to the second part of the interview, and
LISTENING
compare their answers with a partner’s. Play
the audio while they complete and confirm their
WARM-UP 5 min
answers. When checking answers, students
With books closed, tell students they are going to
should correct the false answers to make them
hear an artist talking about his job. Ask, What kinds
true according to what Gino said. Play the audio
of jobs do artists do? (Possible answers include:
again as necessary.
website designer, greeting card artist, courtroom
artist, T-shirt designer, fashion illustrator)
Listen for details. Remind students that even
when listening for details they don’t need to
understand every word they hear. They should
A Make predictions. Look at the photo below. Gino
identify key words that they should listen for
is a storyboard artist. What do you think he does?
before they listen.
Tell a partner. 10 min
Students should look at the photo and then
D Take notes. Gino gives people advice about
discuss what they think Gino does with a
becoming a storyboard artist. What advice
partner. At this point, don’t comment on whether
does he give? Listen for key words and take
students’ predictions are right or wrong, as they
notes. Then choose the correct answers below.
will check them in the listening.
66 10 min
Make predictions. Predicting the topic before
Tell students to read the sentences before they
listening helps students activate language
listen. Point out the Information Box and tell
(vocabulary and grammar) that may be
students to listen for these signpost words that
useful when they listen. Consequently, they
will alert them to identify details.
are more prepared for what they are about to
hear and likely to be more successful in their
Take notes. Students should identify key details
understanding.
of a listening passage and take notes while
they listen. This allows them to recall facts and
information after the audio has been played,
B Check predictions. Listen and circle the correct
which gives them a chance to not only answer
answer. 64 10 min
questions, but also to think about the most
The interview with Gino is divided into three
important parts of the passage, and how they
parts, so students will listen to each part and
may relate to each other.
complete different exercises. For the first part,
play the audio and then check the answer with
E Does Gino’s job sound interesting to you? Why or
the class. You could follow up with a question:
why not? Tell a partner. 10 min
When does Gino create a storyboard—before
or after the movie is finished? (Before.) Students
Go over the directions with the class. Give
need to figure out the answer (infer it) using their
students a moment to think about their answers
own knowledge and what Gino says. There is
and make some notes. Assign students to
more practice with inference in C.
pairs to discuss their answers to the questions.
Monitor and provide help as necessary. Call on
Check predictions. Checking their predictions
individual students to share their answers. As a
once they have confirmed them through listening
class, discuss Gino’s job and whether they think
helps students identify how predicting helped
it is interesting or not.
them understand the content more easily (even
if their predictions weren’t correct, they will have
EXPANSION: Role play 10–15 min
helped them activate knowledge and language
and be more prepared for the content). In this
For extra listening and speaking practice, follow
way, students realize that it is a useful strategy
these two steps:
and will be more likely to get into the habit of
1. Play the whole interview again (Tracks 64 and
predicting before they listen.
65). Tell students to listen and write down all the
© National Geographic Learning
questions that the interviewer asks.
C Listen for details. Read the sentences.
Then listen and circle T for true or F for false.
2. Put students in A-B pairs. Have Student A be
Correct the false sentences in your notebook.
the interviewer and ask the questions from the
65 15–20 min
interview. Have Student B be Gino from the
recording and answer the questions, trying to
Tell students that Gino doesn’t say these things
remember what Gino answered (though it doesn’t
directly—they need to figure out the answers
need to be exactly the same).
indirectly (infer them). Tell students to circle
all the answers they think they know before

Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson B | 128a

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 128 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 250 ────────

Say, Do you know when I went to Japan? (No)
GRAMMAR
That’s why we use the present perfect, because
we don’t know when it happened. Next, add
WARM-UP 10–15 min
these words to the conversation on the board:
This exercise reviews past participle forms
that were introduced on the grammar page on
B: Yes, I have. I was there two years ago.
page 123. With books closed, explain to students
A: Did you visit Tokyo?
that they are going to play a game called “Verb
tennis.” Demonstrate the game by asking a
Now ask students, Do you know when I went?
confident student to stand with you at the front.
(Yes) So we use the simple past.
Explain that you are Player A and the student is
Point out that we often use Have you ever . . .?
Player B. A says a verb and B has to say the
to ask about past experiences. Explain that the
simple past form and then A says the past
word ever means sometime in the past.
participle, like this:

Either ask students to turn to page 203 and
A: go
complete the exercises in the Grammar
B: went
Reference or tell them to try to move on to
exercise C. Alternatively, you could have students
A: gone
complete the exercises for homework the day
After Player A says the past participle, Player B
before and check understanding during class.
says any verb, Player A says the simple past
form and B says the past participle. This pattern
C Complete the conversation. Write the simple past
continues until one player makes a mistake and
or present perfect form of the verbs. 10–15 min
says the wrong form. If they make a mistake, the
Students can work alone and then compare their
other player gets a point and starts the next game.
answers in the conversation. Also have them
Once you have demonstrated the game a couple of
read the information explaining how we often use
times, put students into pairs and let them start to
the questions in everyday conversations.
play. Point out to students that they can use regular
verbs, but if they want to beat their partner they will
need to choose irregular verbs.
D Work in pairs and start a conversation about
each topic (1–6) with Have you ever . . .? If your
partner answers, Yes, I have, then ask for more
A Compare the underlined verbs in the sentences.
information and write it down. Ask two of your
What are the two verb forms called? 3 min
own questions in 7 and 8. 10 min
Following the grammar in Lesson A and the
If you think your class needs more help with
Warm-Up above, students should recognize
past participles, begin this exercise by working
the verb forms in the sentences and be able
through the six questions as a class. Elicit the
to tell you the answer immediately. What they
correct version of each question with Have you
will be less sure of is when you use one and
ever . . .? and check that students know the past
when you use the other. This page will clarify
participle forms of have, win, travel, meet, do,
that and provide further practice. If they answer
and go. Then, tell students to work alone and
confidently, invite students to suggest why one
think of two more Have you ever . . .? questions
and not the other is used in the sentences.
for 7 and 8. Next, assign students to pairs and
(The exact year is stated in item 1, so it’s the
explain that they should start their interview with
simple past for completed actions at a specific
a Have you ever . . .? question followed by a
time in the past. Since is used in item 2, so it’s
question in the simple past using where, when,
the present perfect for talking about an action
what, who with, or how. As they talk, they should
that started in the past and is still true today.)
fill in the Yes / No column and then add any more
information to the final column.
B Read the Unit 9, Lesson B Grammar Reference
© National Geographic Learning
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
TEACHING OPTION
the exercises below. 20–30 min
In D, students could stand up and walk around.
Let students read the examples and explanations
Have students interview one student with one
in the chart and concentrate on the difference
question and, if they get a “yes” answer, write down
between the two forms. Then write the following
the answers. Then have them move to another
on the board:
student and ask another question. The aim is for
students to find one person for each of the eight
A: Have you ever been to Japan?
things in the table.
B: Yes, I have.

129a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 129 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 251 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Compare the underlined verbs in the sentences. What are the two verb forms called?
the simple past
1. Asher Jay became a National Geographic Emerging Explorer in 2014.
the present perfect
2. She has been passionate about wildlife since she was a child.

B Read the Unit 9, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

THE SIMPLE PAST AND THE PRESENT PERFECT

Use the simple past to talk about completed    Asher Jay was born in India in 1985. (at a
actions and situations at a specific time in the past. specific time)
She spent two months in Africa. (action finished)

Use the present perfect to talk about . . .    1. Asher Jay has turned her love for art and
1. actions that began in the past and continue now.    animals into a career. (continues now)
2. past actions when the time that they happened    2. She’s visited Africa many times. (exact time
is unknown or not important.    is not important)

We often use the present perfect to ask about experiences in life (things you have done / haven’t
done before): Have you ever been to Japan? Yes, I have. / No, I haven’t.

C Complete the conversation. Write the simple past or present perfect form of
i It is common to start
a conversation with a
the verbs.
question in the present
have worked
perfect and then ask
A: How long (1. work) you for this company?
questions in the simple
started
B: For three months. I (2. start) in June.
past to get more
information.
did do
A: What (3. do) you before that?
studied
B: I (4. study) business in college.
Did enjoy
A: (5. enjoy) you it?

B: Yes, I did. For one term, I studied in Toronto, Canada.
Have been
(6. be) you ever there?
went
A: Yes, I have. I (7. go) there for vacation last summer with a friend. We
had
(8. have) a great time!

D Work in pairs and start a conversation about each topic (1–6) with Have you ever . . .?
If your partner answers, Yes, I have, then ask for more information and write it down.
Ask two of your own questions in 7 and 8.

Start the conversation:    Ask for more information:
Have you ever . . . ? Yes / No Where? When? What? Who with? How?
1. have a job interview
2. win a competition
© National Geographic Learning
3. travel overseas
4. meet a famous person
5. do yoga
6. go on vacation with friends
7.
8.

Have you ever had a job interview?
Yes, I have.
What was the job?

Lesson B | 129

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 129 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 252 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Work in pairs and imagine you are looking for a new job. Make a list of what you need to know
about the job (for example, type of work, hours).

B Read the job advertisement and answer the
WANTED
questions with a partner.
PART-TIME CHEFS AND SERVERS
1. Does it have all the information you listed
in A? If not, what is missing?
This summer, our Italian restaurant needs
2. What are the pros and cons of this type
part-time chefs and servers to work evenings
of job?
and weekends. We are looking for personable
and flexible people to join our fun team. The
3. What sort of person is it good for?
work is demanding but rewarding. Experience is
helpful but not required. Full training is provided.
C In pairs, imagine you are the manager of a
Email your resume to Mr. Wright at
business. Choose the type of business and
themanager@thepastaplace.com.
think of a job title. Design and write a short
APPLY NOW
job ad.

D As a class, put your ads from C around the classroom, walk around, and read them all. Then
choose a job that you would like to apply for.

E Compare the two emails to the manager in response to the ad in B. Which is better? Why?
x
x
themanager@thepastaplace.com themanager@thepastaplace.com
To:
To:

Part-Time Server Position    Subject:
Hey!
Subject:

Hi, Mr. Wright!
Dear Mr. Wright,
I saw your ad, and I’d like to work for you as a chef. I’ve
I am writing to apply for the position of part-time
done that type of work before, and I was good at it. My
server at your restaurant. I have worked as a server in
number is 867-3647.
a restaurant before, and I was a friendly and efficient
member of the staff. Currently, I am a first-year
Speak soon,
college student, and I am able to work evenings and
Gary
weekends. I have attached my resume and a letter of
recommendation from a past employer.
Send

I look forward to hearing from you.
The first email is better because it is more formal and polite.
Sincerely,
The writer uses formal expressions and writes about his past
experience. The second email is too informal, not very polite, and
Jake Stephenson
doesn’t say much about the writer’s past experience.
Send

F WRITING Look at the job ad you chose in D and write a formal
USEFUL EXPRESSIONS
email to the manager. Describe your past experience and use    Dear Sir or Madam, / Dear Mr. /
© National Geographic Learning
the Useful Expressions to help you.    Ms. ,
I am writing to apply for . . .
I have worked . . .
9B GOALS Now I can . . .
Currently, I am . . .
I am able to work . . .
1. Yes, I can.
I have attached . . .
Describe a job
I look forward to hearing from you.
2. Mostly, yes.
Sincerely, / Best regards,
Talk about my past experience
3. Not yet.

130 | UNIT 9

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 130 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 253 ────────

D As a class, put your ads from C around the
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
classroom, walk around, and read them all. Then
choose a job that you would like to apply for.
WARM-UP 5 min
5–10 min
With books closed, ask the class, Have you
The ads should be spread around the classroom
ever had a part-time job or a summer job? If any
and students should all choose one ad. If you
students answer yes, ask them to describe the job
are working online, the ads could also be shared
(e.g., their hours and responsibilities). If none of
on a platform such as a class website or Padlet.
your students have had a part-time or summer job,
ask them to suggest the kind of jobs that people do
part-time or during the summer.
E Compare the two emails to the manager in
response to the ad in B. Which is better? Why?
A Work in pairs and imagine you are looking for a new
10 min
job. Make a list of what you need to know about the
Emphasize to students the importance of writing
job (for example, type of work, hours). 5 min
a good application email to go with a resume
Put students in pairs (or small groups) and have
when applying for a job. While the resume is
them brainstorm what they would want to know
important, the cover email gives a prospective
about a new job. Their lists might include: type
employer a first impression. Discuss as a class
of work, hours, pay, holiday, uniform or special
which is the better email and say why.
clothing, number and length of breaks, pension,
travel, option to work from home, opportunities
F WRITING Look at the job ad you chose in D and
for promotion. Allow about three minutes and
write a formal email to the manager. Describe
then have everyone share their ideas with the
your past experience and use the Useful
class. Write all the ideas on the board.
Expressions to help you. 20–25 min
Refer students to the list of Useful Expressions
B Read the job advertisement and answer the
taken from the first (better) email so they can use
questions with a partner. 10–15 min
the expressions in their own emails. Point out that
Give time for your students to read the job
formal writing like this is fairly formulaic, so they
advertisement and to ask any questions about
don’t need to change the basic language of the
vocabulary. Then, in pairs, students should refer
email. They should only write between 75 and
back to the list of ideas from A on the board and
100 words. At the end, have students return their
check what information is in the job ad and what
job ad to the person who wrote it, along with their
is missing. As they also answer items 2 and 3,
email. The other student can read the email and
monitor and make suggestions if any pairs are
give feedback on the use of formal language in
finding the task hard. Possible answers might
the email.
include the following:
Diagnostics
Item 2: Pros: Part-time and flexible, fun team,
Check students’ competencies as follows:
rewarding job, training is given / Cons: working
• Are students able to write a job advertisement?
evenings and weekends, work is demanding.
• Can they understand a job ad and a cover
Item 3: The person needs to be personable and
email?
flexible. It’s better if he / she is experienced, but
• Are they able to write a formal email?
it isn’t essential.

At the end, two pairs could get together and
9B
compare their answers, or you could check
GOALS
answers as a class.
Review student’s self-assessment in the
goals box. Point out to students where
they learned these skills in the unit. If they
C In pairs, imagine you are the manager of a
© National Geographic Learning
rated their ability below Yes, I can, they can
business. Choose the type of business and think
turn back to those pages and review the
of a job title. Design and write a short job ad.
exercises.
10–15 min
Describe a job: Vocabulary, page 125, A–C;
As a class, briefly discuss what students will
Reading, page 127, B–D; Listening,
need to include in their job ad, such as a job title
page 128, A–D
at the top in large letters, a job description with
information about the job and the type of person
Talk about my past experience: Grammar,
needed, and an email address. Assign students
page 129, B–D; Active English, page 130, F
to pairs and then ask students to think of their
own business and create a job ad.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson B | 130a

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 130 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 254 ────────

C Guess the answers to the questions. Then watch
GLOBAL VOICES
the video again and check your answers. 10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Give time for students to read the questions
and guess the answers. They can discuss
Write the following question on the board with three
their guesses in pairs or groups. Also use this
choices of answer: How many jobs do you think you
opportunity to review vocabulary that has come
will have in your lifetime?
up in the unit; for example, ask students to define
a. Between 1 and 7
the meaning of adjectives like adventurous or
punctual. Then play the video and check the
b. Between 8 and 15
answers.
c. More than 15

Read the question aloud and then, as you read the
D Imagine you are an interviewer. Write five
three answers, ask students to raise their hand in
questions for Corey based on the information he
response to choices a, b, or c. Then tell students
gives in the video. 20–30 min
that research from the US reports that most people
If necessary, play the video again so that
will have 10 different jobs before they are forty and
students can think about questions to ask Corey.
predicts that we will all have up to 15 jobs in our
Then have students write their questions. You
lifetime. Many of them will also have two and three
could invite everyone’s ideas and write questions
jobs at the same time (especially when they are
on the board so that if any students can’t think
young). Ask students if they find this result surprising
of five, they can use some of their classmates’
or not surprising and give reasons for their opinion.
suggestions. Possible questions include the
following (which you can also share with the
ABOUT THE VIDEO
class):
In this Global Voices video, explorer Corey
Where do you go fishing?
Arnold talks about having two jobs. He works on
crab boats in the Bering Sea and he also takes
Why is the fishing so hazardous?
photographs for National Geographic. We see some
What type of photos did you take at first?
of Corey’s photos and learn about what it’s like to
Do you like taking people’s photographs?
work on crab boats. In particular, he describes
the dangers of the currents of the sea around
What did you do in 2016?
the Aleutian Islands, near Alaska, and the weight
Where did you go?
of the fishing equipment. Then he talks in detail
Who did you photograph?
about a project for National Geographic where he
Did you find many young people in the parks?
visited national parks and took images of the “Selfie
Generation”—or millennials (people born between
How did you find them?
1981 and 1996)—enjoying themselves in nature.
Do you think young people are interested in
nature?
A Look at the people in the photo below. What do
you think their job is? How would you describe it?
E Work in pairs and role-play an interview with Corey.
5 min
Take turns being the interviewer (asking your
questions from D) and being Corey (answering
Discuss the image together as a class. It
with information from the video). 15 min
shows crab fishermen in the Bering Sea, which
separates the continents of the Americas
With their questions prepared from D, have
and Eurasia in the north Pacific Ocean. It is a
students role-play two short interviews with
particularly dangerous part of the ocean, so the
Corey, taking turns being the interviewer
work is very hazardous and the fishermen need to
and Corey. Monitor their conversations and
be courageous.
take notes on any language difficulties. Give
feedback to the whole class at the end.
© National Geographic Learning
B Watch a video about fisherman and National
Geographic photographer Corey Arnold. Number
EXTRA! Write a magazine article 20–30 min
the questions (1–4) in the order they are
With their notes from watching the video in B and
answered. 10–15 min
C, and from interviewing their partners playing
Ask students to read the four questions in the
Corey in E, ask students to write an article about
video and then play the video. You could play
Corey Arnold to appear in a magazine. They should
the video twice so students can watch it through
write between 100 and 120 words and include a
once, and then play it again but pause it after
headline.
each part so the whole class can check their
answers.

131a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 9, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 131 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 255 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A Look at the people in the photo below. What do you think their job is? How would you describe it?

B Watch a video about fisherman and National Geographic photographer Corey Arnold. Number the
questions (1–4) in the order they are answered.
2    1
a. Why is being a fisherman so    c. What type of people go to Alaska to
dangerous?    be fishermen?
3    4
b. What kinds of things did Corey take    d. How did Corey photograph the “Selfie
photos of at first?    Generation”?

C Guess the answers to the questions. Then watch the video again and check your answers.
1. What type of person is usually interested in fishing in Alaska?
a. adventurous b. punctual c. knowledgeable
2. What kind of environment does the weather create on the boat?
a. rainy b. hazardous c. exciting
3. Over time, how did Corey feel about photographing people?
a. shy b. nervous c. comfortable
4. For his story “Unplugging the Selfie Generation,” how did Corey contact millennials?
a. through social media b. with an ad c. by visiting universities
5. What did Corey learn about this generation while doing the story?
a. They aren’t visiting national parks.    c. They are passionate about nature.
b. They are on their phones all the time.

D Imagine you are an interviewer. Write five questions for Corey based on the information he gives in
the video.

E Work in pairs and role-play an interview with Corey. Take turns being the interviewer (asking your
questions from D) and being Corey (answering with information from the video).

© National Geographic Learning

Men working on a crab
fishing boat in the Bering
Sea. Photo by Corey Arnold.

Lesson B | 131

WLTB_L2_U09_ptg01.indd 131 30/04/21 1:32 PM

──────── Page 256 ────────

REAL WORLD LINK GIVE AN ELEVATOR PITCH

Alan Alford, a student at the
University of South Florida,
gives his elevator pitch as
part of a competition for
business students.

A Have you ever heard of an elevator pitch? What do you think it might be? Read the first paragraph
of the article and check if your ideas are correct.

Be Ready with Your Elevator Pitch
An elevator pitch is given when you have a short amount of time with someone and want to
sell them your new idea. Imagine you work for a company and you have a great idea, but
you are never in the room with the executives who make the decisions. Should that stop you?
No! Always be ready to present your idea clearly and quickly—you might not be in the right
meetings, but you never know when you will step into an elevator with the CEO and will have
his or her complete attention for thirty seconds.

This is also true for job interviews. When the interviewer says, “Tell me about yourself,”
you need to have your elevator pitch ready to sell yourself. In other words, convince the
interviewer you are the best person for the job in a short amount of time. A good elevator pitch
quickly shows your qualities and skills to an employer. Make sure your pitch says who you are,
© National Geographic Learning
what you do, and what you want by taking the following steps.
• Introduce yourself; say your name with a smile.
• Tell your story; say what you do now and what you have done in the past.
• Explain what you want; ask for a chance to show what you can do.
Finally, avoid some common mistakes. Speak clearly and confidently—but not too quickly.
If you feel nervous, try to slow down. Don’t use big, complicated words; make it easy to
understand. And remember: a good elevator pitch should be no more than a minute or two.

132

WLTB_L2_RWL03_ptg01.indd 2 30/04/21 1:10 PM

──────── Page 257 ────────

REAL WORLD LINK:
EXTRA! Extra listening 67 15–20 min
GIVE AN ELEVATOR PITCH,
In C, students listen to two elevator pitches and
analyze the speakers’ performances. You might find
Units 7–9
it useful to play the listening once initially so that
students have a general idea about the speakers
WARM-UP 5 min
before they complete the feedback forms in C.
With books closed, ask students, Have you ever
Write the following questions on the board and ask
sold anything to someone? Invite answers from
students to listen and answer for both speakers.
individual students. Their answers might range from
selling candy to friends in school to working in a
1. What are their names? (Sonia / Kyle)
store or even working as a salesperson. Close out
2. What skills and abilities do they have? (Sonia has
the discussion by explaining that there is a theory
a degree and speaks French. / Kyle is good with
in business that everything involves some kind of
computers.)
selling and, in particular, selling ourselves when we
go for a job interview.

NOTES
A Have you ever heard of an elevator pitch? What
do you think it might be? Read the first paragraph
of the article and check if your ideas are correct.
5–10 min

Ask students to look at the photo and read the
caption. Then ask for a few suggestions about
what an elevator pitch might be before students
start to read the first paragraph. To thoroughly
check their understanding, you could ask the
following questions:

1. How much time do you have for an elevator
pitch? (30 seconds)
2. What should you do if you have a new, great
idea? (always be ready to present it)
3. Who might you meet in the elevator?
(a company CEO)

Note that CEO stands for Chief Executive Officer
and this is the highest-ranking person in a
company who makes all the major decisions.

CULTURE TIP: Elevator pitch

The term elevator pitch began in the US, but
theories about its origins vary. One popular story
says that the term comes from 1854, when a man
named Elisha Graves Otis invented a new device to
help with safety in elevators. He presented his new
idea to a large audience and was successful. After
his pitch, he set up the Otis Elevator Company,
which still sells elevators today.

© National Geographic Learning
B Read the rest of the article and circle T for true or
F for false. 10 min
As students read the rest of the article, ask them
to decide if the five statements are true or false.
As they read, they should underline the words
in the text that give them the answers so that
they can explain their choices afterwards. As an
extension, you could have them rewrite the false
sentences so that they are true.

Teacher’s Book UNITS 7–9 | 132a

WLTB_L2_RWL03_ptg01.indd 3 30/04/21 1:10 PM

──────── Page 258 ────────

C Listen to elevator pitches from two different people
when time is short. Option 2 works well with
in job interviews. Check (✓) the best column in the
smaller classes and if you have plenty of time for
feedback form for each item and decide who is
students to give their pitches one by one. Option
best for the job. 67 15–20 min
3 is a good option for online classes, but will
also work well if you want to assign the task for
There are no exact answers in this task. Students
homework.
should listen and make their own judgments
about whether each speaker does each item
well or not. Be prepared to play the audio twice
G As you watch an elevator pitch by another
and on the second listening stop the audio after
student, take notes on the feedback items in C.
each speaker to pick out different parts of their
Then meet with the speaker and give your
speech.
feedback. Do they agree with you? 5–10 min
Every student should have a partner who is
D In pairs, compare your feedback about the two
in charge of evaluating their pitch using the
elevator pitches in C. Do you agree? Which
feedback form in C. With Option 1, the partner
speaker do you think is better for the job? Why?
can evaluate within the pair, or you can put
10–15 min
students into groups of three so that one student
presents, one student listens, and the third
The main conclusion of the pairs should be that
student concentrates on filling in the form. With
Speaker 1 performs very well and gives a good
Option 2, one or more students can evaluate the
model of how to do an elevator pitch in a job
performance, but the whole class doing so would
interview. Speaker 2 does not perform as well.
be too daunting. With Option 3, students can
After a few minutes, ask pairs to tell the class
send each other their videos for assessment.
their views and make sure they are specific
about which parts make the pitch good or bad.
TEACHING TIP: Peer assessment

EXTRA! Identify useful language 10 min
Throughout the process of students giving each
other feedback with the forms in C, make sure the
In exercise E, students will write and prepare their
comments are a mixture of positive comments with
own pitch. To help them with this, you could play the
things to work on. Based on the feedback, students
first speaker again and ask students to write down
could repeat their pitches during another class
any useful phrases they hear that they could reuse
session, taking into account the feedback they
in their own pitch. Useful expressions they hear and
received, if you have time.
might write down include:

My name is . . .

After graduating with a degree in . . . , I spent . . .
NOTES
years . . .

Then, I decided to . . .

I’ve spent [time] . . .

Now I’m looking for a position . . .

I’d like the opportunity to develop . . .

E Follow the steps to prepare an elevator pitch.
10 min

Have students work alone and prepare their
pitch for either a job they really want or an
imaginary job. Remind them the speech should
last no more than 90 seconds. Also remind them
© National Geographic Learning
about the usefulness of pausing, which they
looked at for storytelling in Unit 8, on page 114.
They can draw a line (|) in places where they
plan on pausing during their pitch.

F You Choose Choose one of the options for giving
your elevator pitch. 10–15 min
Which option you and your students choose will
probably depend on your classroom situation.
Option 1 will work well with large classes and

133a | Teacher’s Book UNITS 7–9

WLTB_L2_RWL03_ptg01.indd 4 30/04/21 1:10 PM

──────── Page 259 ────────

UNITS 7–9
B Read the rest of the article and circle T for true or F for false.
1. You need to sell your skills and qualities in a job interview. T F
2. You should only talk about what you are doing now, not about the past. T F
3. At the end of your pitch, you should say, “I’d like the opportunity to show you . . .” T F
4. You should speak faster so you sound more confident. T F
5. If you have a lot of experience, you should speak for longer than a minute or two. T F

C Listen to elevator pitches from two different people in job interviews. Check (✓) the best column in
the feedback form for each item and decide who is best for the job. 67
Feedback for the first speaker should be positive and feedback for the second speaker should be negative.
Did Speaker 1 . . .    
introduce herself?
tell her story?
explain what she wants?
speak clearly and confidently?
speak for one minute or less?

Did Speaker 2 . . .
introduce himself?
tell his story?
explain what he wants?
speak clearly and confidently?
speak for one minute or less?

D In pairs, compare your feedback about the two elevator pitches in C.
I think the first
person told her
Do you agree? Which speaker do you think is better for the job? Why?
story well.

So do I, and I think the
E Follow the steps to prepare an elevator pitch.
second person didn’t
1. Think of a job you would like to do in the future and write a short job
introduce himself well.
description.

2. Write an elevator pitch to respond to “Tell me about yourself” during an interview for this job. Use
the advice in the article. After writing, practice saying your pitch and memorize it.

F You Choose Choose one of the options for giving your elevator pitch.
Option 1: Work in pairs and role-play a job interview. Take turns saying, “Tell me about yourself,”
and giving your pitch.
© National Geographic Learning
Option 2: Stand up in front of the class and present your elevator pitch. As you are watching
others’ pitches, try to guess the type of job the person is looking for.
Option 3: Make a video recording of your elevator pitch that you can send to employers. Play the
video for the class.

G As you watch an elevator pitch by another student, take notes on the feedback items in C. Then
meet with the speaker and give your feedback. Do they agree with you?

133

WLTB_L2_RWL03_ptg01.indd 5 30/04/21 1:10 PM

──────── Page 260 ────────

UNIT 10

10
ABOUT THE PHOTO
Your students will probably be
familiar with the subject of this
photo because it shows people
meeting online in 2020, during
STAY IN
the COVID-19 pandemic. Many
people communicated this way,
both for work and in their spare
TOUCH
time in order to see family and
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
friends. This image shows the
QUESTIONS.
Covenant House Choir meeting
1. Would you like to be part of an online event
in May of 2020 to perform their
like this? Why or why not?
music for an online audience.
2. How do you normally stay in touch with family
and friends? By texting? Video calls?

INTRODUCE THE THEME
WARM-UP VIDEO
In this unit, students explore the
concept of communication and
A When you want to find out new facts and
information, where do you look?
how we keep in contact with
Newspapers, magazines, reference books, the internet,
certain apps, such as dictionaries, experts on the subject
family and friends.
B Watch the video and answer the questions.
1. Where can you call to find out information?
Lesson A provides vocabulary
(the helpline at) the New York Public Library
a librarian
2. Who will answer the phone?
for talking about how we stay
3. Why does Rosa think people often call them?
in touch. Students listen to a
Because some people don’t have access to technology at
home, and some people want somebody to talk to.
number of different phone calls
C Watch the video again and write the missing
and learn key expressions for
numbers.
making phone calls and dealing
917-275-6975
1. The telephone number is .
with different types of callers.
ten
2. There are librarians on
They also practice the language
the team.
1967
for making polite requests and
3. The helpline began in .
30,000
asking for permission.
4. They receive around calls
per year.
In Lesson B, they consider the
5. A great white shark has around
300
teeth.
themes of phone etiquette and
how smartphones have changed
D Would you prefer to use the internet to find
our lives. They develop the
the answer to a question or to call the New
reading strategies of reading for
York Public Library and ask a librarian? Why?
main ideas and thinking critically
E If you called the New York Public Library, what
about the text afterwards. Finally,
question would you like to ask? Tell a partner
they practice writing informal
and try to find out the answer before the next
messages in a variety of situations.
class.

WARM-UP 5 min
Write the words Stay in touch on
liked or didn’t like about this way
people use the service because
the board and ask students to
of staying in touch.
not everyone has internet access
say what they think it might mean.
at home and some people just
If a student gives you a correct
want someone to talk to.
definition (e.g., keep in contact),
WARM-UP VIDEO
ask them to use it correctly in a
© National Geographic Learning
About the video
complete sentence.
This video is called “The Google
A When you want to find out new
Before Google.” It’s about a
facts and information, where do
Look at the photo. Answer the
telephone service at the New York
you look? 5 min
questions. 5 min
Public Library called Ask NYPL.
As a warm-up to watching the
Have students look at the photo
Surprisingly, even in the age of the
video, either brainstorm ideas
and answer the questions. In
internet and Google, the library
for this question as a class or
2020, many of your students will
receives around 30,000 calls
put students into small groups
have stayed in touch with family
a year from people with many
and give them time to think of
and friends using online platforms
different questions. The librarian
answers before sharing with
like this, so ask them what they
interviewed in the video thinks
the whole class.

134 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 10

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 60 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 261 ────────

B Watch the video and answer
the questions. 5–10 min
Read through the questions
first and discuss with students
what type of answers they
need to listen out for. The
answer to question 1 is a place,
the answer to question 2 is
a person, and the answer to
question 3 is the reason for
something. Then play the
video and ask students to
write the answers.

C Watch the video again and
A group of singers performs
write the missing numbers.
as part of an online event to
10–15 min
raise money for a non-profit
organization.
Ask students to try to
remember the missing
numbers from their first
viewing. Also point out that
we say numbers in different
ways. For example, when
someone says a telephone
number, they often chunk the
numbers, so they say them
in groups of three or four at
a time. We also say years
differently than amounts. Play
the video twice—once all the
way through, and then again,
pausing after each relevant
number to check the answers.

D Would you prefer to use the
internet to find the answer to
a question or to call the New
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
York Public Library and ask a
/ Talk about ways to stay in touch    / Discuss how you use the phone
librarian? Why? 5 min
/ Make formal and polite calls    / Communicate informally
Discuss the question as a
class. Also ask students if they
are aware of a similar service
in their town or city. Ask if they
tell their partner what they
NOTES
have a library and what kind of
want to know and why. They
services it offers.
could also discuss where they
might look to find the answer.
Remember to have them report
E If you called the New York
© National Geographic Learning
the answer to their question
Public Library, what question
during the next class session.
would you like to ask? Tell a
partner and try to find out the
answer before the next class.
5 min

Give students a minute or so to
think of a question they have
for the library. Then have them

Teacher’s Book UNIT 10 | 135

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 61 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 262 ────────

10A ON A CALL

VOCABULARY

A Read the article. Then answer the questions below.

Phone Data
In a survey of teenagers (ages 13–17) with phones, nearly 100% said their phone is their
favorite way to pass time and to stay in touch with other people. They love it so much that over
three quarters of them check their messages as soon as they wake up. A different survey found
that, for adults, phones are important for work, with around half of them making video calls and
attending virtual meetings on their phones. Both teens and adults said they feel anxious when
their phones are on silent—or worse still—when they don’t have a signal!

1. What three things do most teenagers use their phones for?
To pass time, stay in touch, and check messages
2. What do adults also use their phones for?
For work, making video calls, and attending virtual meetings
3. What makes teens and adults feel anxious?
When their phones are on silent, and when they don’t have a signal.
WORD BANK
pass
B Does any of the information surprise you? Why or why not?
spend time / 1. time
stay
get in touch / 2. in
touch (or contact)
C Complete each phrase in the Word Bank with the missing
check your phone / check your
verb or noun. The answers are in the article.
messages
3. / check your email
make
call someone / 4.
D Ask and answer the questions in pairs.
a call / return a call
1. What are the three most important things you use your
attend
go to a meeting / 5.
phone for?
a meeting
get a text / get a message
2. When you wake up, what is the first thing you look at on
is
your phone?
The phone 6.
on silent. / on mute.
3. Do you normally stay in touch by texting, calling, or making
can’t get a / don’t have a
video calls? What does it depend on?
signal
7.
4. How do you feel when your phone is on silent or you don’t
have a signal?

People check their phones
and use social media in a
cafe in Borama, Somalia.

© National Geographic Learning

136 | UNIT 10

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 62 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 263 ────────

answer, or put them in pairs to discuss their views
10A ON A CALL
before they provide feedback to the class. Another
option is to write sentences like this on the board:
VOCABULARY
One thing that I found surprising in the test is that . . .
WARM-UP 5–10 min
One thing I didn’t find surprising is that . . .
With books closed, write on the board, What can
Give time for students to complete these two
you do on your phone? Put students into groups
sentences and then invite individual students to
and tell them they have three minutes to write a list
read them aloud. Scaffolding the task in this way
of things you can do with a modern phone. After
often encourages all students to prepare and share
three minutes, ask one group to read their list aloud
their opinions more readily.
and then other groups can add different ideas they
came up with. Answers might include: make a call,
text a friend, take a photo, play a game, record a
C Complete each phrase in the Word Bank with
video, find out the weather, use a map, use social
the missing verb or noun. The answers are in the
media.
article. 10–15 min
Unlike the Word Banks in most units in World
CULTURE TIP: Phones
Link, this Word Bank is incomplete and students
The information mentioned in the article in A is
fill it in by finding collocations and fixed
based on survey results from the US. The number
expressions in the text. Students might already
of people in the world with a mobile device and
know some of them, but they should still check
access to the internet is constantly rising but is
their answers by looking for them in the article.
estimated at about 60% of the global population.
If you think some of your students do not own a
D Ask and answer the questions in pairs. 5 min
phone, then you will need to be sensitive to that.
Even if every student in your class does own a
The aim of this exercise is for students to answer
phone, it’s likely that some students will not own the
and make use of the expressions in the Word
very latest type of smartphone, so avoid a situation
Bank. Point this out to students so that they make
where students talk about the type of phone they
an effort to use as much of the language as
own.
possible. Have students take turns asking and
answering the questions.

A Read the article. Then answer the questions
TEACHING OPTION: Class Survey
below. 5 min
20–30 min
Set a time limit of two minutes to read and
As an alternative to D (or in addition to D), explain
answer the questions. Suggest students
that you want students to carry out a class survey
underline any key words that answer the
on their phone use, similar to the one reported in
questions so that they can easily refer to the key
the article. In pairs, students should prepare five
information when answering the questions as a
or six questions to ask other students. They can
class. Also, answer any questions about any new
prepare similar questions to those in D, as well as
words in the text.
questions that will help them find information similar
to what is reported in the article. For example, Is
B Does any of the information surprise you? Why or
the phone your favorite way to pass time? Do you
why not? 15 min
check messages as soon as you wake up? When
each pair has more than five questions, they should
Find out if your class thinks any of the
separate and walk around the room to interview
information is surprising. If they aren’t surprised,
other students in the class. When they have a few
ask them why.
answers to their survey questions, they should meet
with their partner and compare the results they
TEACHING TIP: Students expressing opinions
© National Geographic Learningwrote down.
In B, students are expected to express an opinion.
Sometimes when teachers ask for their students’
opinions, they are disappointed that their students
don’t answer right away. This can be interpreted as
your students not having a viewpoint, but, in fact,
students just need extra time to think about their
opinion and then find the language they can use
to express it. So when you ask students for their
opinion, allow at least 10 seconds for someone to

Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson A | 136a

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 63 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 264 ────────

C Check predictions. Listen and check your
LISTENING
answers in B. 69 10–15 min
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Play the audio for students to check their
predictions. Write the letters of the answers on
Tell students to look at the photo. Ask, How often do
the board. Discuss any differences between
you make video calls? Do you prefer making a phone
what students had predicted.
call or a video call? What does it depend on? Do you
ever meet people on video calls and do fun activities?
Check predictions. Checking the predictions
For example, playing games, playing music.
students made after they have listened enables
them to see how predicting is useful, or if their
A Listen to six conversations. Which are phone
prediction wasn’t correct, to analyze why the
calls? Which are video calls? Write P for phone
answer was not what they had predicted.
or V for video. 68 10–15 min
Note that in the listening, when something goes
D PRONUNCIATION: Stress with clarification
wrong in the calls, this tells students that it’s a
Listen to the conversation. Why does Speaker B
video call. So, before listening, you could ask
stress the underlined number? 70 5 min
students, What can go wrong when you make a
Explain to the class that we can stress numbers,
phone call or video call? Elicit ideas and write
letters, and words on the phone in order to help
key words on the board. You may want to preunderstanding. One option is to have students
teach the list of expressions below.
close their books before you play the audio
so they can only listen and say which number
EXPRESSIONS: When calls go wrong
is being stressed. Then afterwards, follow the
instructions in the book and play the audio
You’re on mute.
and have students listen and read the short
Click the microphone.
conversation.
He’s having problems logging on.
She’s frozen.
E PRONUNCIATION: Stress with clarification
Listen and complete the conversations.
You’re breaking up.
71 10 min
I can’t hear / see you.
Let students read the incomplete conversations
The signal is bad.
and then play the audio. Have students
complete the missing information.
Play the audio twice and pause it after each call
on the second listening to check answers with
F Practice the conversations in E with a partner.
the class.
Then use new information and practice again.
10–15 min
B Infer information; make predictions. Read the
Put students into pairs and have them practice
sentences below. Then listen again to the six
reading the three conversations aloud. Then
conversations and decide which sentence could
have them switch roles and repeat. Monitor
come next in each one. 68 10–15 min
carefully and help with any difficulties with
Give students time to read the sentences silently,
spelling and stressing certain letters. Then
or ask students to read them aloud. Clarify
students should practice the three conversations
vocabulary as needed. Play the audio once, giving
again, this time using three different pieces of
enough time after each conversation for students
their own information (or information they have
to read and circle their answers. Play it again
made up), such as phone numbers, usernames,
straight through while students circle any answers
or email addresses. As they say their information
they missed. Have students compare their
aloud, their partner should write it down. The
predictions and give the reasons for their choices.
partner should also read it back to them or
© National Geographic Learningcheck any parts for clarification by using stress.
Infer information; make predictions. Remind
students that predicting what they will hear
before listening helps them be more prepared
as they will have activated prior knowledge
and language related to it. Inferring information
means using the information they have and their
background knowledge to figure out something
that isn’t directly said. Point out to students that
they can often figure out what will come next in a
conversation by inferring information about how
the speakers feel or what they are talking about.

137a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 64 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 265 ────────

A family photo
taken during a video
call in Singapore

LISTENING

A Listen to six conversations. Which are phone calls? Which are video calls? Write P for
phone or V for video. 68
P V P V P P
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.

B Infer information; make predictions. Read the sentences below. Then listen again to the six
conversations and decide which sentence could come next in each one. 68

1. a. OK, I’ll check my messages.
4. a. Maybe her laptop is turned off.
b. No, thanks. I’ll call back later.
b. I’ll ask her to leave and try again.
c. Yes, I left a message.
c. Try checking your messages.
2. a. Sorry, I always forget to click it.
5. a. Can I take a message?
b. Sorry, I’m making a call.
b. Is your phone on silent?
c. I’ll put you on mute.
c. Do you mind if I call you again later?
3. a. May I ask who’s calling?
6. a. Check your text messages.
b. Would you like to leave a message?
b. Sorry, I don’t have a signal.
c. Please leave me a message, and I’ll call
c. OK, and what’s your phone number?
you back.

C Check predictions. Listen and check your answers in B. 69

D PRONUNCIATION: Stress with clarification Listen to the conversation. Why does Speaker B
stress the underlined number? 70

A: My number is 555-6749. B: 555-6749? A: Yes. 6-7-4-9.
B wants to check if the number 7 is correct.

E PRONUNCIATION: Stress with clarification Listen and complete the conversations. 71
© National Geographic Learning
1. A: My username is nancy_p12.    3. A: My email address is joym@sf.edu.
d 12    joy n
B: Did you say ?    B: Was that at sf.edu?

A: No, p12. That’s p as in Paul.    A: No, it’s joy m as in Mary.

2. A: My username is @photoguy.
@photoguy
B: ?

A: That’s correct.

F Practice the conversations in E with a partner. Then use new information and practice again.
Lesson A | 137

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 65 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 266 ────────

SPEAKING

A Celia and Lisa are chatting when their phone call is interrupted. Listen to the conversations.
Then answer the questions. 72

Prof. Larson: Lisa, this is Professor Larson. You left
Lisa: Hello?
me a message earlier today. You had
Celia: Lisa? Hi. It’s Celia.
a question about tomorrow’s exam.
Lisa: Oh, hey, Celia. How’re you doing?
Lisa: Oh, right. Professor Larson, could
Celia: Pretty good. So, are you ready for
you hold for a moment?
the big test tomorrow?
Prof. Larson: Of course.
Lisa: Almost, but I have one question . . .
Lisa: Hello, Celia? Can I call you back?
(phone beeps) Oh, Celia, can
I have to take the other call.
you hang on? I’ve got another call
Celia: Sure. Talk to you later.
coming in.

1. Why is Lisa and Celia’s conversation
Celia: Yeah, no problem.
Prof. Larson calls Lisa while she is
interrupted?
Lisa: Hello?
talking with Celia.
2. Which conversation is more formal?
Prof. Larson: Yes, hello. May I speak to Lisa
Underline the phrases in the conversation
Sanchez, please?
that help you decide.
The call between Lisa and
Lisa: Speaking.
Professor Larson is more formal.

B Practice the conversation in A with two classmates.
SPEAKING STRATEGY 73
Use your own names in the conversation.
Using the phone

Asking for    Hi, Lisa? / Hi. Is Lisa there? /
C Make the conversation below more formal by
someone and Can I speak to Lisa, please?
changing the underlined words. Use the Speaking
responding
Strategy to help you. Then practice it with a
Hello. May / Could I speak to
partner.
Lisa, please? [formal]
This is Lisa. / Speaking.
Hana: Hello?
Asking for    Who’s calling?
Martin: Hi. Is Kurt there?
identification
Hello. May / Could I speak to Kurt, please?
of caller    May I ask who’s calling?
Hana: Who’s calling?
[formal]
May I ask who’s calling?
Asking    Hang on. / Can you hang on
Martin: This is Martin.
someone to    (for a moment / second)?
wait
Hana: OK, hang on.
Would / Could you hold
Would / Could you hold (for a moment / second)?
(for a moment / second)?
[formal]
Martin: Sure.

Hana: Sorry, he’s not in. Can I take a message?
Taking a    Can I take a message?
© National Geographic Learning
message
May I take a message? / Would you like to leave a message?
May I take a message?
Martin: No, thanks. I’ll call back later.
Would you like to leave a
message? [formal]
D Role-play a new phone conversation between
Hana and Martin from C. This time Kurt is home.
Before you begin, decide if the conversation will be formal or informal.

E Perform your new conversation from D for another pair. Can they tell if the call is formal or informal?

138 | UNIT 10

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 66 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 267 ────────

even have one student call another student on the
SPEAKING
other side of the classroom.
WARM-UP 5 min
With books closed, ask students if they speak the
LANGUAGE TIP: Making language more formal
same way to their friends as they do to a professor,
Different world languages have different ways of
a boss, or a doctor. What’s different? Elicit the idea
expressing formality. For example, in Spanish,
that we speak more formally to some people than
Portuguese, and French, there are different verb
others and that this is especially true when we make
forms for a formal you and an informal you. In
phone calls.
Korean, there are different verb endings depending
on the relationship of the speakers. In Japanese,
A Celia and Lisa are chatting when their phone call
there are different forms to be used depending
is interrupted. Listen to the conversations. Then
on age, gender, and relationship to the speaker.
answer the questions. 72 5–10 min
English uses particular vocabulary or expressions
to express formality in different situations and also
Play the audio once with books open. Tell
makes use of certain grammar more frequently
students to notice where the second conversation
to change the register (e.g., the use of indirect
begins and which conversation is more formal.
questions, the passive voice).
Follow up and ask what expressions make the
second conversation more formal. In the first
conversation, you could also ask, What are some
D Role-play a new phone conversation between
informal expressions? (Oh, hey, Celia. How’re
Hana and Martin from C. This time Kurt is home.
you doing?, Pretty good, and Yeah, no problem.)
Before you begin, decide if the conversation will
Notice that Celia’s Pretty good, is not strictly
be formal or informal. 15–20 min
grammatical—that would be Pretty well—but it’s a
common and accepted usage.
If practical, students should work with new
partners. Tell students that they are to create
entirely new conversations, not to follow the ones
B Practice the conversation in A with two
in A and C. They should start by deciding the
classmates. Use your own names in the
situation for each conversation. They can treat
conversation. 10–15 min
one situation both formally and informally, or
Play the audio again if you wish, then read it
have two different situations. Give them time to
line by line, with students repeating. Before
practice their conversations.
practicing with their own names, students need
to decide who answers the phone (Lisa), who
E Perform your new conversation from D for another
is the caller (Celia), and who is the professor. If
pair. Can they tell if the call is formal or informal?
possible, students should practice three times so
5–10 min
that everyone plays all three roles.
Students should perform their conversations
without reading—and, if possible, without notes.
C Make the conversation below more formal by
If students can’t guess which is more formal, the
changing the underlined words. Use the Speaking
four students should work together to revise the
Strategy to help you. Then practice it with a
conversations as needed. Probably only one
partner. 15–25 min
or two changes will be necessary. Monitor the
Go over the expressions in the Speaking Strategy
groups and make notes about their use of formal
with the class, pointing out which are formal and
language. End the lesson with feedback on the
which are not. Introduce the exercise and tell
board showing good use of formal expressions as
students to write their changes on the blank lines
well as language students could improve on.
or in their notebooks. They should work alone at
first, then with a partner to combine their ideas
LARGE CLASS OPTION
into a conversation that they both like. Check
Rather than students working in groups of four,
answers with the whole class, approving all
© National Geographic Learning
they can work in larger groups. In this case, put the
appropriate sentences. Finally, pairs can practice
pairs in D into groups of six or eight to perform their
the conversation, back to back.
conversations in E.

TEACHING TIP: Telephone role plays
ONLINE OPTION
To simulate a real telephone conversation, we need
Students can practice their role plays in breakout
students not to be able to see each other, which is
rooms. You could also ask them to record their
why we often sit students back to back. In some
conversations if your online platform has a
classrooms, that isn’t practical, so ask students to
recording function. Then they can share their
sit side by side and look slightly away from their
recordings for peer feedback or feedback from you.
partner. If all your students have phones, you could

Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson A | 138a

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 67 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 268 ────────

in A. Then refer students to the four items. Have
GRAMMAR
them complete the questions and compare their
answers in pairs before checking the answers
WARM-UP 5 min
with the class.
With books closed, write this phrase on the board:
Can I call you back? Elicit ideas for other ways of
asking this question, such as with May I / Would
PRONUNCIATION TIP: Features of connected
speech
it be ok if / Do you mind if . . .. Write a few ideas
on the board and then discuss which questions
In everyday English, even when it is formal, we
are the most formal. Then ask why we might ask
often reduce some of the forms, such as Would
for permission in this way. Also, ask students to
you / Do you, so they almost sound like one word
suggest some ways to respond to the question and
instead of two. In addition, we also link words
write them on the board. Then tell students to open
ending in a consonant sound and starting with a
their books and see if the chart in A contains any of
vowel sound, so two separate words like mind if /
their ideas.
may I / would it / could I sound like they are linked
and are one word: mind_if / may_I / would_it /
could_I. Here’s an exercise to draw students’
A Read the Unit 10, Lesson A Grammar Reference
attention to this and to develop their ability to
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
identify the meaning: With books closed, tell
the exercises below. 20–30 min
students to listen to a sentence and afterwards
In the chart, point out the different verb forms in
say how many words they hear. Say the sentence:
the questions, even though the meaning in all
Would it be OK if I called back later? (Answer:
three is now. The conditional questions, Would
9 words). Then say another such as Can I turn
it be OK if . . .? and Would you mind if . . .?, take
on the TV? (Answer: 6 words). After you speak,
the simple past form of the verb. The other two
give students time to say the sentence back to
questions take the simple present. Emphasize
themselves and count out the number of words.
that Would you mind if . . .? and Do you mind
if . . .? both require the person responding to
use negative verbs in order to say yes or to give
C Read each situation. Use the verbs in
permission. Point out that you can also say,
parentheses to ask permission. 10–15 min
Is it OK if . . .? Based on what they saw in the
Do the first item on the board with the whole
Speaking lesson, have students identify which
class to show them what to do (or make up a
expressions are more formal (the ones with
new one to use as an example). Review all the
would, may, and could). Model asking them for
possible answers with the whole class to be sure
permission using a few classroom situations; for
their questions are correct before going on to
example, May I borrow your eraser? Would you
D. Note that there is more than one way to write
mind if I used your pen? Can I clean the board
the answers for these, so you will accept a few
now?
different ideas and correct where necessary.
Prompt students to answer using the expressions
in the chart. If students are ready, call on them to
D With a partner, take turns asking and answering
ask each other for permission to do something
the questions in C. Refuse (say no to) at least
(for example, open the window, close the door,
one request and give a reason. 5–10 min
check answers). Then have students complete
Review the responses in the chart in A again
the exercises on page 205. The grammar chart
before students practice responding to
on page 204 includes further examples and
requests for permission. Monitor and write down
explanations on the formality of each expression,
difficulties students are having with the structures
expanding on the information in the chart on
to clarify after the exercise. To follow up, ask
page 139. Alternatively, you could have students
four pairs to perform a question and a refusal for
complete the exercises for homework the day
© National Geographic Learningthe class.
before and check understanding during class.

B Look at the photo below. A passenger is asking a
flight attendant for permission. Use the words in
parentheses to complete the questions. 10 min
Before students start this exercise, you could ask
them to look at the photo and read the caption.
Then ask students what they think the passenger
might be asking the flight attendant. As they
make suggestions, encourage them to try to use
the language in the grammar chart

139a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 68 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 269 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 10, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

ASKING FOR PERMISSION RESPONSES

Certainly. / Of course. / Sure, no problem.
it be OK
(I’m) sorry, but . . .
Would    if I called back later?
No, not at all. / No, go ahead.
you mind
(I’m) sorry, but . . .
No, not at all. / No, go ahead.
Do you mind if I call back later?
(I’m) sorry, but . . .
Certainly. / Of course. / Sure, no problem.
May / Could / Can I call back later?
(I’m) sorry, but . . .

B Look at the photo below. A passenger is asking a flight attendant for permission. Use the words in
parentheses to complete the questions.
1. (move to another seat)    3. (use the restroom now)
mind if I moved to another seat    be OK if I used the restroom now
Would you ?    Would it ?

2. (have a vegetarian meal)    4. (turn on my laptop now)
I have a vegetarian meal    I turn on my laptop now
May ?    Can ?

C Read each situation. Use the verbs in parentheses to ask permission.
1. Your friend is doing his or her homework. You have finished your homework, and you want to
watch TV. Ask permission informally. (turn on)
Can I turn on the TV?

2. You’re invited to a party on Saturday night. You want your friend to go, too. Ask the host’s
permission a little formally. (bring)
May / Could / Do you mind if I bring a friend to the party on Saturday night?

3. You were sick yesterday and missed an important test in class. You want to take it this Friday.
Ask your teacher’s permission formally. (take)
I missed the test yesterday because I was sick. Would you mind / Would it be OK if I took the test this Friday?

4. Your teacher doesn’t allow phones in class. You need to keep your phone on silent, but you are
waiting for an important text. Ask your teacher’s permission formally. (check)
Would you mind / Would it be OK if I checked my phone? I’m waiting for an important text.

D With a partner, take turns asking and answering the questions in C. Refuse (say no to) at least one
request and give a reason.

© National Geographic Learning
A flight attendant and passengers on
a flight from Iceland to Greenland

Lesson A | 139

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 69 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 270 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Read the article with advice about customer service over the phone. Is the
It’s for customer service representatives.
article for customers or for customer service representatives?

What Drives Customers Crazy on the Phone?

When people call customer service, they often get angry with the representative. Here are the
top five reasons why customers get angry and how you can keep them happy.

1. Waiting for someone to pick up
Customers hate waiting. Answer the call quickly and avoid putting them on hold.
2. When no one knows the answer
Avoid saying you don’t know the answer to a customer’s question or transferring them to
someone else. Have a positive attitude and find out the answer.
3. No apology1
If the company has made a mistake, apologize. Customers want to feel that their problem is
your problem.
4. Repeating information
Customers hate it when they have to repeat information. Listen and get it right the first time.
5. Rude or unfriendly service
Even if you feel tired, greet the caller politely and offer help in a friendly way.
1An apology (n) is when someone says they are sorry. To apologize (v) means to say sorry.

B Listen to a phone call. What does the customer service representative do wrong?
Use the five items from the article in A to help you. 74
She doesn’t pick up the call quickly and puts the
customer on hold; she doesn’t give him an answer and transfers him to someone else; she doesn’t apologize; she asks the
customer to repeat information; she is rude and unfriendly.
C Listen to a call with a different customer service representative. What does she do well?
Use the five items from the article in A to help you. 75
She picks up the call quickly and doesn’t put the
customer on hold; she says she will find the answer to his question; she apologizes; she doesn’t ask the customer to repeat the
order number; she is polite and friendly.
D Imagine that you are going to make a call to a customer service representative about a
late product. In your notebook, write down:

• the name of the product • the order number

• when you ordered it • your contact number

E In pairs, role-play a phone conversation. Then switch roles and repeat.
Student A: You are the customer. Use your information from D.

Student B: You are the customer service representative. You need to ask for and write
down the customer’s information. Decide if you are going to be polite and
helpful (and solve the problem) or rude and unfriendly!
© National Geographic Learning
10A GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Talk about ways to stay in touch
2. Mostly, yes.
Make formal and polite calls
3. Not yet.

140 | UNIT 10

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 70 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 271 ────────

D Imagine that you are going to make a call to a
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
customer service representative about a late
product. In your notebook, write down: 5–10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
Have students use their imagination and think
With books closed, ask the class, Do you ever get
of a product they have ordered. If they are
angry on the phone? What makes you angry? Invite
having difficulty, suggest they think of the most
some ideas and write them on the board. If students
recent product they bought. Or they can choose
have any stories about bad telephone calls,
something they might dream of buying if they
encourage them to tell the whole story and say
had enough money. Alternatively, brainstorm
what happened.
ideas together as a class for one product and
write the details on the board.
A Read the article with advice about customer
service over the phone. Is the article for customers
or for customer service representatives? 10 min
E In pairs, role-play a phone conversation. Then
switch roles and repeat. 5–10 min
Ask students to read for gist and identify that
the text is for customer service representatives
Assign students to A-B pairs and read through
because it gives advice on how to keep
the two roles as a class. Allow both students to
customers happy. If you have done the
prepare what they are going to say in each role.
Warm-Up, you can then ask students to read
Refer them back to the Speaking Strategy on
the article again and say which ideas on the
page 138 and the grammar chart on page 139.
board are also in the text.
To have some fun with the role play, Student B
can choose to be rude and unfriendly if they
want to. If you want to ensure students get
EXTRA! Additional listening for gist 10 min
practice at being polite and helpful and also
One option before doing B and C is to have
rude and unfriendly, students could do the same
students close their books and listen to Tracks 74
role play twice, playing the customer service
and 75 together. Ask two general questions: Why
representative in two different ways. Then have
is each person calling? What is the difference
students switch roles and repeat the exercise.
between the two calls? Students should answer
that the person is calling about a package that is
Diagnostics
two days late. In the first call the representative is
Check students’ competencies as follows:
unhelpful and in the second call she is very helpful.
• Can they identify what makes good customer
service on the phone?
B Listen to a phone call. What does the customer
• Are they able to make a formal call about a
service representative do wrong? Use the five
product?
items from the article in A to help you.
• Are they able to ask for information politely?
74 10–15 min

You could ask students to read the text again if
necessary to make sure they know what the five
10A
GOALS
items are before listening. Then play the audio
and have students take notes about what goes
Review student’s self-assessment in the
wrong in the call.
goals box. Point out to students where
they learned these skills in the unit. If they
rated their ability below Yes, I can, they can
C Listen to a call with a different customer service
turn back to those pages and review the
representative. What does she do well? Use the
exercises.
five items from the article in A to help you.
75 10–15 min
Talk about ways to stay in touch: Vocabulary,
page 120, A–D
Play the second call and this time have students
Make formal and polite calls: Listening,
write down what the representative did well.
page 137, B; Speaking, page 138, A–E;
© National Geographic LearningGrammar, page 139, A–D
EXPANSION: Has this happened to you?
5 min

Ask students, Have you ever made a call similar to
this one? What happened? Was the person helpful
or unhelpful? Have students share their experiences
in pairs.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson A | 140a

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 71 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 272 ────────

phrasal verbs and students will have already seen
10B ALWAYS CONNECTED
some basic ones such as get up (in the morning),
turn on (the TV), look up (a word in your dictionary).
VOCABULARY
Explain that phrasal verbs have a main verb and a
preposition. Note that the next unit (Unit 11) deals
WARM-UP 5–10 min
with phrasal verbs, so don’t go into too much detail,
Ask students to look at the photo at the bottom of
but it’s useful to raise your students’ awareness
the page. Ask, What is happening? Why has the
of them.
woman stopped? Then tell them to read the caption
and say if they think it is necessary to step aside in
a public place when you are on your phone. Extend
PRONUNCIATION TIP: Noticing stress patterns
the discussion by asking students what drives them
Have students notice that all the two-syllable words
crazy when other people use their phone in public
in blue have the stress on the second syllable: polite,
places; for example, Do you get angry when people
respond, ignore, allow, delete, device. And all the
speak loudly on the phone on public transportation
three-syllable words in blue have the main stress on
or in restaurants?
the middle syllable: distracted, attention, addicted.

A Read the quiz below and match the words in blue
B Take the quiz. Complete with your own ideas and
to their opposites. 10–15 min
circle your answers. Then compare your answers
Ask students to read the title of the quiz and
in groups of three. 20 min
guess what the word etiquette means. Elicit from
To demonstrate how the quiz works, you could
students that it means what is generally accepted
do item 1 together as a class. Read item 1 aloud
as good behavior or good manners and being
and have students raise their hands for choice
polite. Give an example sentence such as, When
a or b, or invite some students to suggest their
you are eating, it’s good etiquette not to talk when
own ideas for choice c. Then have students
your mouth is full. Then make sure they don’t yet
complete the rest of the quiz on their own before
take the quiz. Ask students to first read through
comparing their answers in groups of three.
and match the words in blue to their opposite
meanings. Also refer them to the Word Bank to
help with other definitions. If necessary, students
TEACHING OPTION
can refer to their dictionaries, but they should
As an alternative to comparing their answers,
also be able to guess quite a few answers and
students could work in pairs and interview each
also ask for help from classmates and you.
other with the quiz; they could take turns reading
the questions aloud and having their partner give
TEACHING TIP: Using a dictionary while reading
their answers, adding any reasons or explanations
if necessary. Then, after both students have
Always impress upon your students that the best
interviewed each other, they can see how many
way to deal with unknown words while reading—
questions they agree on.
even in their first language—is to get the general
meaning from the context. They shouldn’t lose their
concentration to work on unknown vocabulary.
EXTRA! Discussion questions 10–15 min
However, if students wish to learn the exact
meaning, suggest that they mark the word and go
If appropriate, lead a class discussion on being
back to it later and use a dictionary. Here are some
polite and friendly on social media. Some possible
tips for using a dictionary.
questions to prompt discussion are:
1. Find the word in the dictionary and read the
Have you had any experiences of rude comments
definition.
from people you know / don’t know in response to
something you posted?
2. Look back at the word in context to see if the
definition makes sense. If it doesn’t, try a bigger
How do people feel if they receive unfriendly posts?
dictionary that gives more definitions.
© National Geographic Learning
If you use social media, do you have to accept that
3. If there is more than one definition, try each one
negative comments are part of it?
in the context until you find the one that fits.
When does an unfriendly post become online
4. Add the word to your vocabulary notebook.
bullying?

If students find this topic of particular interest, they
could even design a Social Media Etiquette quiz
VOCABULARY TIP: Phrasal verbs
similar to the one on Phone Etiquette in A.
Note that this quiz contains the phrasal verbs turn
down and turn up. When checking answers, you
could talk about the fact that English has a lot of

141a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 72 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 273 ────────

10B
ALWAYS CONNECTED

VOCABULARY

A Read the quiz below and match the words in blue to their opposites.
WORD BANK
rude    allow
1. polite 4. ban
A device is a piece of
ignore    pay attention to
electronic equipment used
2. respond 5. be distracted by
for a special purpose; for
turn down    delete
3. turn up 6. post
example, a smartphone or
tablet.
Phone Etiquette: How Polite Are You?
If you are addicted to
1. You’re on a date. You get a text from a friend. What do you do?
something, you can’t stop
doing or using it.
a. Check it and respond right away.
b. Ignore the message. Answering it now would be rude.
c. My idea:
2. A man on the bus is listening to loud music. What do you do?
a. Ask him to turn down the music.
b. Put on your headphones and turn up your music loud, too.
c. My idea:
3. I think we should . . .
a. ban phones in crowded places like subways and airplanes.
b. allow phones everywhere at any time.
c. My idea:
4. You are talking to your boss, but she is distracted by her phone. What do you do?
a. Stop talking and ask why she is addicted to her phone.
b. Keep talking and hope she starts to pay attention to you.
c. My idea:
5. You want to post some funny photos of your friend online. What do you do?
a. Show your friend the photos first and ask if it’s OK.
b. Post them and, if he doesn’t like them, delete them.
c. My idea:

B Take the quiz. Complete with your own ideas and circle your answers. Then compare
your answers in groups of three.

© National Geographic Learning
A woman pauses in the street to check her
phone in Hong Kong, China. Is this a good idea?

Lesson B | 141

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 73 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 274 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Ask students to look at the photo.
H A V E S M A R T P H O N E S
Ask if anyone in the class has
ever been to this kind of “silent
CHANGED OUR LIVES
disco.” Then ask, Why would
someone prefer this kind of disco
FOR BETTER OR FOR WORSE?
to a normal, loud disco? What are
some other ways to take a break
c. What are the different ways we use smartphones?
1.
from your phone? How do you do
Smartphones have changed the way we live. Billions of people around the world are
it?
using their phones to make calls, send texts, and check email. Many of them are
also booking car rides, comparing product reviews, following the news, and posting
on social media. Some people prefer to do their banking on their phones, and others
A In pairs, read the title of
want to check how many steps they are taking each day in order to stay healthy.
the article and answer the
d. What are the disadvantages of smartphone use?
2.
questions. 10 min
These benefits, however, come at a high cost to our mental1 and social lives. We
Have students discuss the title
keep checking our phones more and more throughout the day, and this is making us
and answer the questions in
increasingly distracted. As we become addicted to our phones, we spend less time
pairs. Then have several pairs
in the “real” world and more time in the virtual2 world. We often don’t pay attention to
share their answers with the
what is happening right in front of us.
rest of the class. As students
e. How do smartphones affect us mentally?
3.
say whether they think
Researchers are familiar3 with this trend. They are studying smartphone use and
smartphones are making our
our ability to complete tasks.4 In one study, they asked three groups of participants
to complete a math problem and some other tasks. The first group agreed to keep
lives better or not, ask them to
their phones in another room. The second group put their phones in their pockets.
give reasons for their answers.
The researchers allowed the third group to place their phones on their desks. The
participants did not use their phones during the study. At the end of the exercise,
the first group did better than the others.
VOCABULARY TIP:
Smartphones and cell phones
a. How do smartphones affect us socially?
4.
In a second study, participants ate a meal with friends or family at a restaurant.
People sometimes use the terms
One group left their phones on the table during the dinner. Another group put their
cell phone and smartphone to
phones away. At the end of the meal, the first group reported that they felt distracted
mean the same thing, but there
by their phones and enjoyed eating their meal less.
is a difference: a cell phone is
b. Is it time to take a break from your phone?
5.
usually smaller (and older) and its
One result of all this is that more and more people are choosing to turn off their
main function is to make calls. A
phones for long periods of time. For example, some are taking “digital-free
smartphone combines a phone,
weekends” and going two days with no phone or internet. They prefer spending
a computer, an internet browser,
more of their free time with friends and family or doing exercise outside, rather than
different apps, etc. In American
staring at a screen. People who do this report feeling calmer, with less stress in
their lives. Why not try it this weekend and see what happens? 76
English, people often refer to
their “cell” instead of saying cell
1Mental means related to the mind or thinking.
2If something is virtual, it’s happening online or through a computer, not in real life.
phone. In British English, a cell
3If something is familiar, you know about it because of previous experience.
4A task is an activity or piece of work you have to do.
phone is called a mobile phone
and people refer to their “mobile.”
142 | UNIT 10

B Read for main ideas. Read
the article and match each
without reading the whole
Students will need plenty of
question to a paragraph (1–5).
text. If any of your students
time to read the text in more
5 min
are intending to study at a
detail and start to take notes.
Set a time limit of two minutes
university, they will need to
You could draw the table
© National Geographic Learning
to complete this reading
develop this skill in order to
below on the board and have
task so that students only
decide when a text is useful (or
students copy it. Then ask
read for gist and don’t try
not) to read in detail for their
students to write their notes in
to understand every word.
studies; it will save them a lot of
the two columns and compare
When they have matched the
time and unnecessary reading.
with a partner. Finally, elicit
questions, check the answers
their answers and complete
as a class.
the table on the board.
C Read the article again and
make a list of the ways in which
Read for main ideas.
For better For worse
smartphones have changed
Sometimes we only read a text
our lives . . . 15–20 min
to get the general meaning

142 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 74 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 275 ────────

D Find these words underlined in
the article and write what they
3. they (paragraph 3)
researchers
A In pairs, read the title of the article and answer
refer to in your notebook.
the questions.
4. the others (paragraph 3)
the two other groups
10 min
1. How do you think the article will answer the
the negative effects of
5. all this (paragraph 5)
smartphones described in
Point out that the paragraph
question in the title?
6. it (paragraph 5)
previous paragraphs
numbers for where the words
(taking) a digital-free weekend
2. How would you answer the question? Why?
can be found are indicated.
E Find these adjectives in the reading. What
B Read for main ideas. Read the article and
prepositions follow them? Do you know any
Have students find the words
match each question to a paragraph (1–5).
other adjective + preposition combinations?
and their meanings. Check
to    by
a. How do smartphones affect us socially?
1. addicted 3. distracted
answers with the class.
with
b. Is it time to take a break from your phone?
2. familiar
c. What are the different ways we use
ACADEMIC SKILL
smartphones?
LANGUAGE TIP: Reference
Collocations
d. What are the disadvantages of smartphone
words
When learning a new word, it is important to
use?
also study the collocations the word is part of. A
In the text, many of them in
collocation is two or more words that usually go
e. How do smartphones affect us mentally?
together; for example, pay attention to and take a
sentence 3 refers back to “Billions
break from.
of people” in sentence 2. We
C Read the article again and make a list of the
ways in which smartphones have changed our
commonly use pronouns in texts
For better: We can make calls, check messages,
lives . . .
F Think critically. Work with a partner and
in this way, and all the words in
or send texts and email. We can use our phones
for booking car rides, comparing product reviews,
complete steps 1–3.
• for better.
1–6 refer backwards, though
following the news, posting on social media, banking,
and to check how many steps we take each day.
1. Describe the studies in paragraphs 3
• for worse.
sometimes reference words
For worse: We are increasingly distracted, not paying attention, not completing
and 4 with your books closed. Can you
Overall, what do you think the writer’s opinion
also refer forwards. This type
tasks as well, and not enjoying social
remember what happened?
about smartphones is?
time with family and friends.
of referencing is what gives a
Overall, the writer seems to think that smartphones can be useful, but they
Student A: Describe the study in paragraph 3.
are not good for us all the time.
discourse its cohesion. You don’t
Student B: Describe the study in paragraph 4.
D Find these words underlined in the article and
need to formally teach students
write what they refer to in your notebook.
2. How can you explain the results of the
studies?
about this discourse feature,
1. Many of them (paragraph 1) the billions of
people with smartphones
3. Do you think a “digital-free weekend” is a
but exercises like the one in D
good idea? Why or why not?
2. this (paragraph 2)
checking our phones more and more
are a useful way to help them
comprehend more complex texts.

People attending a silent disco at the
Open’er Music Festival in Gdynia, Poland
E Find these adjectives in the
take a break from their phones and
reading. What prepositions
dance to music they only hear through
headphones.
follow them? Do you know any
other adjective + preposition
combinations? 10 min
Students could predict
the preposition they think
will go with the adjectives
before reading. Then ask
students if they can think of
other adjectives followed by
prepositions. You could also
Lesson B | 143
suggest a few others that
students at this level will have
come across, such as good
at, afraid of, surprised by,
Think critically. When
explain the reason. As they try
interested in, and angry about.
students think critically
to remember and explain, their
about a text, they take the
partner should listen but also
F Think critically. Work with a
information in the text and
try to help and prompt them.
© National Geographic Learning
partner and complete steps
make connections with other
The connection between both
1–3. 5–10 min
information they have read
studies is that the people who
This final exercise concentrates
or heard elsewhere, or they
could not touch or see their
students on the second half
use their own background
phones were less distracted.
of the text. Working in pairs,
knowledge to come to
At the end, ask students to
students should close their
conclusions. Developing this
share their answers to item 3
books and try to recall what
skill helps students analyze
and find out how many people
happened in each study and
and evaluate what they read or
in the class think a digital-free
then use their own ideas to
listen to.
weekend is a good idea.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson B | 143

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 75 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 276 ────────

LISTENING

WORD BANK
A Listen for gist. Read the sentences below. Then listen to three different
If a person does
conversations and choose the best answer for each sentence. 77
something at the last
Conversation 1
minute, he or she does it
at the latest time possible.
1. The speakers are in a .
a. classroom b. restaurant c. movie theater
Conversation 2
2. The speakers are a party.
a. taking photos at b. posting pictures from c. looking at photos from
Conversation 3
3. The speakers are waiting for their friend Manny. Manny is .
a. late for a party b. still at school c. talking on his phone

B Listen for details; infer information. Listen again and choose the best answer. 77
Conversation 1
1. The man is asking the girl to .
a. turn off her phone b. speak more quietly c. turn down her music
2. The girl .
a. apologizes and agrees b. ignores the man c. gets angry with the man
Conversation 2
3. The woman thinks the photo of her is .
a. fun b. silly c. terrible
4. The woman decides to .
a. ignore people’s b. tell Connor to c. both a and b
comments delete the photos

Conversation 3
5. The man texts Manny, and Manny .
a. responds right away b. ignores the text c. calls him back
6. The woman thinks Manny is .
a. polite b. angry c. rude

C Answer the questions with a partner.
1. In each conversation, what happened? Use your answers in A and B to help you explain.
2. Have you ever been in any of these situations? If so, what happened?

In the first conversation, the© National Geographic Learning
girl was . . . and the man
asked her to . . .

144 | UNIT 10

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 76 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 277 ────────

Infer information. Remind students that inferring
LISTENING
information means using the information they
have and their background knowledge to work
WARM-UP 5–10 min
out something that isn’t said directly. When
With books closed, ask students if they and their
listening to a conversation, students can infer
friends all have the same ideas about using cell
how the speakers feel or what they are going to
phones in public. Do they agree about when it’s OK
say or do next, for example.
and when it isn’t? If not, what different ideas do they
have? What about posting photos of other people on
EXTRA! Listening for specific words 10 min
social media? Do their friends agree about asking
before posting photos on social media? What about
If you want to exploit the audio further, write the
punctuality and letting people know if they are going
following questions on the board and have students
to be late or not coming to something?
listen again and write down the answers (given in
parentheses).
These situations (cell phone use in public, posting
1. What is Tony having problems with? (His class)
photos, punctuality / not showing up) can be written
on cards and distributed among students so that
2. What is it hard to hear over? (Her conversation)
different groups or pairs have different situations.
3. How does the man describe the photos? (Funny
Have students briefly discuss their point of view and
and silly)
whether their friends agree, then each group should
share their situation and point of view with the class.
4. What things are the people saying about the
photos? (Not nice things)

5. What can’t the girl do? (Ignore the online
A Listen for gist. Read the sentences below. Then
comments)
listen to three different conversations and choose
the best answer for each sentence. 77 10–15 min
6. Why can’t Manny come to the party? (Something
Go over the sentences with the class and explain
else came up)
any unknown vocabulary. Play the audio and
7. What does Manny never think about? (Anyone else)
give students time to complete the sentences.
Have them compare their answers with a
partner’s, then play the audio again. Check
C Answer the questions with a partner. 10–15 min
answers with the class.
Go over the questions with the class. Give
Listen for gist. Remind students that when
students a moment to think about their answers.
listening for gist, they don’t need to understand
Assign students to pairs to answer the questions.
everything they hear. The purpose is to
Monitor and provide help as necessary. Call
understand the general idea.
on individual students to share their similar
experiences.
B Listen for details; infer information. Listen again
and choose the best answer. 77 10–15 min
EXPANSION: Role play 15–20 min
Go over the sentences for each conversation
Write the following words from each conversation on
and encourage students to complete any
the board:
answers they think they already know. Point out
the explanation of at the last minute in the Word
1. class / hard / trying / meal / friend / hear / loud /
Bank. Play the audio again and give students
quieter / thanks
time to confirm or choose their answers.
2. photos / posted / party / funny / twenty /
Have students compare their answers with a
commented / ignore / delete / good
partner’s, then play the audio again. On the
3. where / Manny / text / replied / can’t come /
second listening, in addition to rechecking their
party / angry / all the time / last minute
final answers, students should write down any
useful words or phrases they hear that help
Make groups of six and then divide each group into
© National Geographic Learning
them choose the correct answer. Finally, check
three pairs. Assign one conversation to each pair
answers with the class and have students say
and tell them to use the word cues to reconstitute
what language they wrote down.
and practice the conversation from the audio. Tell
them to use all the words on the board for their
Listen for details. Remind students that even
conversation in their role plays. When they have
when listening for details, they don’t need to
practiced the role play a few times in pairs, they
understand every word they hear. They should
should perform it for the rest of their group.
identify key words to listen for before they listen.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson B | 144a

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 77 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 278 ────────

LANGUAGE TIP: Gerunds
GRAMMAR
An -ing verb form (present participle) is called a
WARM-UP 10 min
gerund when it’s used as a noun.
With books closed, introduce the topic of likes and
I enjoy conversation. (noun)
dislikes on the board by drawing three emojis and
I enjoy it. (pronoun)
the beginnings of three sentences: I like . . . /
I don’t mind . . . / I hate . . .
I enjoy talking. (gerund)
Ask students to complete all three sentences and
write them down. Then ask students to tell their
C How do you feel about the activities below? Write
partner. Invite one or two students to share their
sentences in your notebook using the verbs in the
sentences and write them on the board. Once some
box. 10–15 min
sentences are on the board, underline the main verb
Go over the verbs in the box and the activities in
and the infinitive verb or the -ing form; for example:
1–8 with the class. Clarify meaning as needed.
I like to eat pasta. / I don’t mind watching soccer. /
Then have students write their sentences
I hate to fail tests.
individually. Remind them to refer to the chart on
this page and on page 205 to help them. Monitor
and provide help as necessary.
A Study the underlined verbs in the sentences from
the reading. In each sentence, what verb form
comes after the first verb? What do you notice
D Work in small groups. Compare your answers
about the verb prefer? 5 min
from C. 10 min
If you have done the Warm-Up, students should
Point out the example conversation in the speech
find this fairly straightforward to complete, noting
bubbles and have two students read it aloud.
that the verb prefer can be followed by either form.
Then have another student comment. Assign
students to groups of three to compare their
sentences with similar conversations. Monitor and
B Read the Unit 10, Lesson B Grammar Reference
provide help as necessary. Take note of common
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
difficulties to deal with after the exercise. Call on
the exercises below. 20–30 min
several groups to share with the class some of
Remind students of verbs that take infinitives by
the things they agreed and / or disagreed about.
asking, What do you want to do this weekend?
What do you hope to do at the end of this
TEACHING OPTION: Question forms
course? Make sure students use an infinitive
in their answers. Then go over the sentences
As an alternative to D, tell students to write Do
in the chart and have students identify the two
you . . .? questions with the sentences in C,
verbs in each sentence (verb + infinitive verb,
selecting any verb from the box; for example:
verb + gerund, verb + infinitive or gerund). Go
1. Do you like talking on the phone?
through the verbs in each category. Remind
students that there is no way to identify which
2. Do you mind receiving texts late at night?
category a verb is in. Students just have to learn
3. Do you prefer to get the news online?
them. Have students complete the exercises on
pages 205–206. The grammar chart on page
Then have students work in pairs, and take turns
205 includes further examples, usage notes,
asking and answering their questions using
and a list of common verbs that can be followed
complete sentences, like this:
by an infinitive or a gerund, expanding on the
Student A: Do you like talking on the phone?
information in the chart on page 145.
Student B: No, I don’t. I prefer communicating on
© National Geographic Learningthe phone by text.
TEACHING OPTION: The flipped classroom
To open up time for in-class communicative tasks,
assign the Grammar Reference on pages 205–206
as homework. The next time class meets:

1. Review the use of verb + infinitive / gerund in the
Grammar Reference.

2. Go through the exercises students did for
homework; present new examples and reinforce
points as needed. Take questions from students.

3. Turn back to page 145 and do the communicative
exercises there, starting with exercise B.

145a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 78 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 279 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Study the underlined verbs in the sentences from the reading. In each sentence, what verb form
comes after the first verb? What do you notice about the verb prefer?
infinitive
1. Others want to check how many steps they are taking each day.
verb + -ing (gerund)
2. We keep checking our phones more and more throughout the day.
infinitive
3. Some people prefer to do their banking on their phones.
verb + -ing (gerund)
4. They prefer spending more of their free time with friends and family.
Prefer can be followed by an infinitive or a verb + -ing (gerund) with no change in meaning.

B Read the Unit 10, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

VERB + INFINITIVE VS. VERB + GERUND

Certain verbs can be followed by an infinitive: agree,
I need to buy a new phone.
decide, hope, learn, need, plan, seem, want, would like

I avoid talking on the phone when I’m    Certain verbs can be followed by a gerund (verb + -ing):
driving.    appreciate, avoid, dislike, enjoy, feel like, keep, (not) mind

I tried to call you earlier.    Certain verbs can be followed by an infinitive or a gerund:
I tried calling you earlier.    begin, can’t stand, hate, like, love, prefer, start, try

C How do you feel about the activities below? Write sentences in your notebook using the verbs
in the box.

avoid can’t stand enjoy hate (not) like (not) mind need prefer

I hate talking on the phone. I prefer to text people.

1. talk on the phone    5. make calls while I’m eating
2. receive texts late at night    6. spend time on my own
3. get the news online    7. play games on my phone
4. take selfies in public    8. post on social media

D Work in small groups. Compare your answers from C.
I can’t stand taking selfies in public.    Really?
It’s embarrassing!    I think it’s fun.

A woman takes a selfie in
front of the Eiffel Tower in
Paris, France.
© National Geographic Learning

Lesson B | 145

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 79 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 280 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Work in pairs. Turn to the Unit 10 Writing appendix and read the messages.
Which of the messages (a–f) . . .

1. are emails? 3. has an emoji?
a, e, and f    d

b    d and f
2. is an advertisement? 4. are replies to earlier messages?

B Complete the guidelines for writing informal messages by circling the correct answers. Find examples
of each rule in the messages in the Writing appendix.

1. You can / can’t use informal language.
2. Do / Don’t include extra, unnecessary information.
3. Avoid / Don’t avoid using all capital letters (for example, HELLO!).
4. You can / can’t use well-known abbreviations.
5. With very informal messages, you can / can’t leave out small words such as pronouns
(I, you, he, she) and articles (a, an, the).

6. Writing informal messages is similar to / not similar to speaking.

C WRITING In pairs, you are going to write six informal messages
USEFUL EXPRESSIONS
using the Useful Expressions and the prompts below.
Hi! / Hello, / Hey ,
Are you free . . .?
Student A: Write message 1 at the top of a piece of paper and
Want to come to my . . .?
then pass the paper to Student B.
Sounds great. / Good idea! /
Student B: Respond below with message 2 and pass the paper
I’d love to.
back to Student A.
Do you like / enjoy . . .?
Can I . . .? / Is it ok if . . .?
Student A: Respond with message 3 and so on.
Sure, no problem. / Sorry, but . . .
Message 1: You are having a party. Invite your partner. Tell him /
Looking forward to it!
her why, when, and where.
See you soon!

Message 2: Say you would like to come to the party.

Message 3: Ask your partner what he / she likes doing at parties; for example, does he / she
enjoy dancing or playing games?

Message 4: Reply and ask permission to bring a friend.

Message 5: Respond to your partner’s request, saying yes or no.

Message 6: Reply with a final message and an emoji.

D With your partner, read the six messages on your paper from C and decide if they follow the
guidelines in B.

© National Geographic Learning
10B GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Discuss how I use the phone
2. Mostly, yes.
Communicate informally
3. Not yet.

146 | UNIT 10

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 80 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 281 ────────

TEACHING OPTION
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
One variation of the exercise in C is to have both
WARM-UP 5–10 min
students writing at the same time by having two
With books closed, write the following types of
separate sets of messages being written. Both
written communication on the board: text, email,
students need their own piece of paper and they
letter, postcard, report. Ask the class to discuss
both write their own message for message 1
and rank them from most formal to least formal.
(following the instructions for Student A). Then they
Invite different opinions and note that some students
exchange their piece of paper with their partner
will (correctly) argue that it might depend on, for
and now imagine they are the receiver (Student B).
example, the type of letter or email. In that case,
They write a reply and exchange again. They write
let them talk about the different types of letters
message 3 (as if they are Student A) and swap
and emails they have received. The aim is to get
again until they reach message 6. The end result is
students thinking about levels of formality before
that both students have a set of six messages each
they start. Refer back to the formal writing they did
from the two different sets of writing. This way of
in Unit 9, if necessary.
doing the exercise means that students are writing
all the time and really having to think quickly—
students often find it a lot of fun.
A Work in pairs. Turn to the Unit 10 Writing appendix
and read the messages. Which of the messages
(a–f) . . . 10 min
D With your partner, read the six messages on
As students are working in pairs, one can have
your paper from C and decide if they follow the
their book open so they can both refer to the
guidelines in B. 10 min
exercise and the other student should open their
Have students refer back to the guidelines in B
book to page 216 in the Writing appendix so they
and decide if they have followed the rules in their
can both read the six messages. When matching
writing. This is also a good opportunity for them
the messages to 1–4, some of the matching is
to circle and correct any mistakes they made in
obvious (e.g., that some are clearly emails), but
their writing. Another option is for each pair to
with 2 and 4, students may need to express their
swap their writing with another pair so they give
opinion and support their answers with reference
each other peer feedback, using the guidelines.
to certain language.

ONLINE OPTION
B Complete the guidelines for writing informal
With online classes, students could carry out the
messages by circling the correct answers. Find
writing task in C either by sending each other real
examples of each rule in the messages in the
texts with phones or by sharing email addresses and
Writing appendix. 10–15 min
doing the exercise for homework. If they email, they
Students can work alone to complete the set of
could copy you so you can also read their writing.
guidelines. As they decide on their answer, they
should find examples from each message of the
Diagnostics
rule to illustrate their choice. For example, with
Check students’ competencies as follows:
item 1, they can find lots of examples of informal
language in the messages, so this one is easy.
• Do students know the guidelines for informal
With item 2, they will have to decide whether the
writing?
messages include unnecessary extra information;
• Can students apply the rules for writing informally?
overall, informal messages need to be short and
• Are they able to write short messages using
simple, so the writer needs to avoid additional
informal language?
information. Afterwards, students can compare
their answers in groups before checking as a class.

© National Geographic Learning10B
GOALS
C WRITING In pairs, you are going to write six
Review student’s self-assessment in the goals
informal messages using the Useful Expressions
box. Point out to students where they learned
and the prompts below. 15–20 min
these skills in the unit. If they rated their ability
Each pair needs one large piece of paper
below Yes, I can, they can turn back to those
to write on between them. Student A writes
pages and review the exercises.
message 1 first at the top of the page and then
Discuss how I use the phone: Vocabulary,
passes it over to Student B. Student B will need
page 141, B; Grammar, page 145, C–D
to read the message and then write the reply.
Communicate informally: Active English,
They should send their messages back and forth
page 146, A–D
until there are six on the page.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson B | 146a

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 81 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 282 ────────

LANGUAGE TIP: bother
GLOBAL VOICES
Remind students that the verb bother is a synonym
WARM-UP 10–15 min
for annoy. We can ask the question, What bothers
you? to mean What annoys you? or even What
Explain that you are going to start the lesson with
drives you crazy?
a quick review quiz of Unit 10 vocabulary. You can
divide the class into two teams or students can
raise their hand first to give the answer. Read each
B Work in pairs and watch the video again. Student
sentence but make a noise or say BLANK where
A will answer questions 1–5; Student B will
there is a blank. Teams or students win 1 point for
answer 6–10. 10–15 min
guessing the missing word.
Assign students to pairs and have them decide
1. Your music is too loud. Can you turn it ?
who is A and B. Allow time for students to
(down)
read their set of questions and ask about any
unknown words. Everyone needs to understand
2. My students are always distracted their
that they are not trying to answer all 10 questions
phones. (by)
on their own, but sharing the workload instead.
3. I’d like you to pay to everything I say.
As they watch, students need to make notes
(attention)
about the questions; be prepared to play the
4. If you don’t like a photo on your phone, you
video twice, but do not check the answers as
can it. (delete)
a class at this stage. If you think that students
are unsure about what they have heard and
5. Stop looking at your phone. You’re to it.
written, you could put a Student A with another A
(addicted)
and a Student B with another B and they could
6. It isn’t polite to use your phone in a restaurant.
compare their answers.
It’s very . (rude)
7. I hate people talking on the phone in public
TEACHING TIP: Jigsaw viewing
places. I can’t it. (stand)
Earlier in the book, students did a jigsaw reading
8. I’m looking to seeing you soon.
in which they had different questions and looked
(forward)
for different information in a reading text. Then they
shared their information with a partner. The idea
9. What drives you on the phone? (crazy)
behind the Jigsaw Viewing in B is the same, but
10. What’s the best way to stay in ? (touch)
using a video. It’s a useful technique when a video
contains a lot of content and you want to make it
ABOUT THE VIDEO
more manageable for students.
In this Global Voices video, we watch a variety of
interviews with people from different countries about
the use of technology in their lives. They talk on a
C Ask your partner his or her set of questions and
range of topics starting with the importance of their
write the answers in your notebook. Then watch
phones and laptops and also what drives them
the video again and check them. 10 min
crazy about technology. They also discuss social
Have students take turns asking each other their
media and their favorite forms of communication.
six questions and providing the answers they
As a result, the video recycles a lot of the vocabulary
have written. By the end, both students should
and grammar presented in this unit. Note that
have sets of notes for all 10 questions. Play
the video is quite challenging in places with a
the video a final time so they can check their
lot of speaking, but the exercises break it down
partner’s answers. Check answers as a class.
so students don’t have to understand everything
immediately.
D Interview your partner with the questions from A.
20–30 min
A You are going to watch a video titled, “Talking
© National Geographic Learning
Give students five minutes to reread the
Tech.” Try to guess the missing words in the
questions in A and to prepare their personal
questions from the video. Then watch the video
answers. Then have pairs take turns interviewing
and check your answers. 5 min
each other and writing down their partner’s
The format of this exercise is similar to the
answers. As you monitor, listen for the correct
Warm-Up, but students have the first letter of
use of vocabulary from the unit and also of the
each missing word. They should be able to
grammar on page 145 because students will
guess most of the words either on their own
need to use verb forms like I like / I hate / I prefer
or helping each other. Play the video so they
followed by infinitive or -ing forms.
can check their answers and complete the
six questions. Remind students not to try to
understand everything at this stage.

147a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 10, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 82 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 283 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A You are going to watch a video titled, “Talking Tech.” Try to guess the missing words in the questions
from the video. Then watch the video and check your answers.
echnology    ommunicate
1. What type of t do you use    4. How do you usually c with
most often?    people?
ike    others
2. What do you l about it?    5. What b you about
razy
3. What drives you c about    communication these days?
smartphones?

B Work in pairs and watch the video again. Student A will answer questions 1–5; Student B
will answer 6–10.

Student A Student B
1. What does Maite use her phone and
6. What does Maite like about her devices?
laptop for?
Mostly for work    They’re convenient. She can take her work anywhere.

2. What does Marcel like about his phone?    7. What does Pedro use his phone for?
Having the world in his pocket    Staying in touch and passing the time

3. What drives Pedro crazy about smartphones? 8. What drives Maite crazy about her smartphone?
People checking their phones during a conversation She’s on it all the time and gets distracted by it.

4. How does Maite prefer to communicate?    9. How does Pedro prefer to communicate
With messaging apps By texting
with his friends?

5. What bothers Maite about communication    10. What bothers Pedro about communication
these days?    these days?
She’s available 24/7; clients can contact her    He can’t stand only communicating by email and
anytime.    phone. He prefers talking face-to-face.

C Ask your partner his or her set of questions and write the answers in your notebook. Then watch the
video again and check them.

D Interview your partner with the questions from A.

© National Geographic Learning
People use devices as
they commute to work
on a boat from Vallejo
to San Francisco in
California (US).

Lesson B | 147

WLTB_L2_U10_ptg01.indd 83 30/04/21 1:31 PM

──────── Page 284 ────────

UNIT 11

11
ABOUT THE PHOTO
The photo shows a red telephone
booth in Tulloch, Scotland. For
many people, these red booths
are a classic design and symbolic
TECHNOLOGY
of the United Kingdom. In the UK,
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
you can still see them in towns and
QUESTIONS.
villages, but it is rare to see anyone
1. What old technology is in the picture?
making a phone call from them.
a telephone booth
2. What did people use it for in the past? What
They are slowly disappearing from
can it be used for now?
the streets, but many people would
To make phone calls. Now it can be used to access the internet.
like to keep them. Some of them
WARM-UP VIDEO
are now used as internet hotspots,
A Can you remember or imagine an old
but others have been used in other
computer? Describe it to a partner. How have
ways, including as small libraries
computers changed since then? Think of one
or places to swap books, as art
or two ways.
galleries, as a coffee shop, and as
B Look up any words below you don’t know. Then
a phone repair shop.
watch the video. Check (✓) the items you see.

✓ ✓
a keyboard a screen
INTRODUCE THE THEME
a monitor an error message
✓ ✓
In this unit, students learn to talk
a mouse a printer
about technology. The language
C Read the statements below and guess the
in the two lessons supports
answers. Then watch the video again and
communication on this theme,
check your answers.
including describing gadgets,
button internet programs
describing how things used to
desk nothing televisions
be, talking about things in the
desk
1. Jayka: “If you don’t have a ,
past that no longer happen, and
where do you put this?”
comparing similar items.
televisions
2. Tyler: “Kind of like those old
that are, like, very boxy.”
Lesson A introduces students
3. Brooke-Monaé: “Apps! Games! Websites!
to adjectives for describing
Everything. But this thing right here has
gadgets. Students also practice
nothing
!”
listening for the main idea and
4. Host: “You can’t do anything, or even type,
button
until you hit a reset . . .”
details, and taking notes. They
programs
5. Dylan: “Are there any on it?”
learn to offer counterarguments
internet
6. Host: “How do you go on the ?”
when expressing an opinion and,
finally, they compare the past and
D How did the kids feel about the old computer?
present and describe changes.
Would you like to use it? Why or why not?

In Lesson B, students start to
use key verbs for talking about
technology, including some
phrasal verbs.They read a report
brainstorm and write down as many
WARM-UP VIDEO
on technology in smart homes,
examples of modern technology as
using the reading strategies of
About the video
they can think of. Then, write their
making predictions and identifying
In this video, children and
ideas around the board. Finally,
missing information through
teenagers are shown “old”
ask students, Which examples of
recognition of key discourse
technology (for example, the
© National Geographic Learning
technology do you use every day?
markers. They also learn how
Apple II, rotary phones, Game
Which do you never use?
to compare similar items, and
Boys, and Walkmans) in order to
to describe a robot. The Global
see what their reactions are. The
Look at the photo. Answer the
Voices video is about a cyborg
interviewer reveals the technology
questions. 5 min
anthropologist who looks at how
and asks the children questions
humans interact with technology.
Have students look at the photo
such as, What do you think it is?
and read the caption in order to
What do you think you can do
WARM-UP 5–10 min
answer the questions. If any of
with it? The children have to figure
your students have visited the UK,
Write the word Technology on the
out how to turn the computer on
ask if they have been inside and
board. Put students in pairs or small
and how to get it to do something.
used one of these booths.
groups and give them one minute to
The videos in the series are

148 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 11

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 60 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 285 ────────

A woman makes a call from a telephone
fun. They help kids see how
booth in the Scottish Highlands. Some of
technology has changed, and
these old booths are now hotspots where
you can access the internet.
how it will continue to do so.

A Can you remember or imagine
an old computer? Describe it to
a partner. How have computers
changed since then? Think of
one or two ways. 5 min
Students can either talk about
old computers in pairs or
as a class. Older students
may have plenty to say, but
younger classes may not
have much experience of old
technology. So, if necessary,
you could describe the first
computer you ever used and
compare it with the type of
computers you can use today.
You could also invite students
to ask you questions about
old technology or show them
a photo of a very old computer.

B Look up any words below you
don’t know. Then watch the
video. Check (✓) the items you
see. 10 min
Have students go through
the six items and look up
any words they don’t know.
Alternatively, they could search
for the items on the internet
to see photos of them. Then
play the video and have
them check the things they
see. Have students compare
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
answers with a partner. Then
/ Talk about devices    / Explain how technology works
/ Describe how things used to be    / Compare similar items
play the video again to check
the answers as a class.

C Read the statements below and
D How did the kids feel about the
EXTRA VIDEO VOCABULARY
guess the answers. Then watch
old computer? Would you like
huge
the video again and check your
to use it? Why or why not?
answers. 10–15 min
5 min
hipster
Go over the words in the box
Go over the questions with the
press shift
and the statements with the
class and have students think
reset button© National Geographic Learning
class and explain unknown
about their answers. Assign
vocabulary as necessary.
students to pairs to discuss
tedious
Tell students to answer any
their answers. Call on several
Tim Berners Lee (the man who
questions they think they already
pairs to share their answers
invented the World Wide Web)
know the answers to and to
with the class.
guess the rest. Play the video
again. Have students compare
answers with a partner. Check
answers with the class, playing
the video again as needed.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 11 | 149

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 61 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 286 ────────

11A THEN AND NOW

VOCABULARY

A Look at the photo of an athlete wearing a fitness tracker. What can this type of technology do?
Then read the ad.
This type of technology can count your steps, track your heart rate and calories, and tell time.

The new BeFit Alpha is the most advanced fitness tracker at an affordable price.

• It’s made with durable materials and comes with a rechargeable battery.

• The user-friendly screen means it’s practical to use, even on the longest workouts.

• The customizable straps come in a variety of fashionable colors.

BeFit. The most reliable name in wearable technology.

i The suffixes -able
B Study the words in blue from A. Then circle T for true or F for false.
/ -ible / -ble mean
capable of or can.
If something is . . .
If something is affordable,
1. advanced, it’s very modern. T F
you can afford it
(it is not too expensive).
2. affordable, it’s expensive. T F
It’s not expensive; it’s a fair price.

3. durable, it’s strong. T F
You can charge the
4. rechargeable, you need to change the battery. T F
battery again and don’t need to change it.
It’s easy to use.
5. user-friendly, it’s difficult to use. T F
6. practical, it’s useful and logical. T F
7. customizable, you can change it. T F
8. fashionable, it looks old. T F
© National Geographic LearningIt looks stylish.
9. reliable, you can trust it. T F
10. wearable, you can wear it on your body. T F

C Check your answers in B with a partner. For the false statements, write correct definitions.

This phone is our
D Think of a device you use (for example, a phone, a tablet) and choose three
most user-friendly
words from A to describe it. Then write a short ad (two to three sentences)
model yet . . .
for the device using your own words. Read your ad to a partner.

150 | UNIT 11

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 62 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 287 ────────

C Check your answers in B with a partner. For
11A THEN AND NOW
the false statements, write correct definitions.
10 min
VOCABULARY
Put students into pairs to compare answers.
They will need to write definitions for items 2,
WARM-UP 5–10 min
4, 5, and 8, so provide plenty of time for this
With books closed, write Wearable technology on
stage. Students may come up with more than
the board and ask, What type of technology do
one correct definition, or their definitions may
you think this is? Elicit the answer (technology you
need slight tweaking. They could also compare
wear on your body) and ask for examples, such
their definitions with what their dictionary says for
as watches, fitness trackers, and virtual reality
each word.
headsets. More and more wearable technology is
being invented all the time, including hearing aids,
PRONUNCIATION TIP
eyewear, jewelry, and clothing. Ask if any of your
students wear technology and find out what it does.
As you monitor students’ progress in B and C,
listen carefully for how students pronounce the
Before opening books, you could also draw
words in blue. You can give on-the-spot correction
students’ attention to the suffix -able, which will
if necessary, or you may decide to drill the ten
appear a lot in this lesson. Underline this suffix
words, with students listening and repeating. You
on the board like this: wearable technology. Explain
could also have them listen and underline the
that the suffixes -able and -ible mean can and that
stressed syllable: advanced, affordable, durable,
they turn the verb into an adjective. Ask if students
rechargeable, user-friendly, practical, customizable,
already know any other adjectives ending in the
fashionable, reliable, wearable.
suffix -able, such as knowledgeable or adaptable.
Draw students’ attention to the fact that while the
suffixes -able and -ible add two extra syllables,
A Look at the photo of an athlete wearing a fitness
suffixes are never the stressed syllables.
tracker. What can this type of technology do?
Then read the ad. 10 min
Discuss the photo and the question as a class. If
D Think of a device you use (for example, a phone,
the example of a fitness tracker came up in the
a tablet) and choose three words from A to
Warm-Up, then you might decide to ask students
describe it. Then write a short ad (two to three
to read the text immediately.
sentences) for the device using your own words.
Read your ad to a partner. 15 min
Have students choose a device they often
TEACHING OPTION: Prediction exercise
use or are familiar with. Then ask them to think
To provide students with an additional task in A, tell
about what words describe it and write a few
them they are going to read an advertisement for
sentences with those words. If you think students
a fitness tracker. Before they read, ask them to list
will find the task easier by working with a partner,
what they expect to find out from the advertisement
have them work in pairs and then have them
and write their ideas on the board; for example,
read their sentences to another pair.
price, material, color, battery life. Then ask them to
read the text and find out which of their ideas the ad
TEACHING OPTION: Write an ad
mentions.
To add more authenticity and real-world context to
D, you could have students write their sentences
B Study the words in blue from A. Then circle T for
in the form of an ad and display them around the
true or F for false. 15 min
class or share them online. They could design the
Have students work on their own. Tell them to
ad with a photo of the item and use bullet points to
find the words in blue and decide if the definition
highlight the key features. As students read each
is true or false. Students can also refer to their
other’s ads, they could look for the correct use of all
dictionary if they want to, but they should be able
© National Geographic Learningthe adjectives in B.
to guess most meanings from context.

TEACHING TIP: Fast finishers

It is always useful to have a way to extend an
exercise for any students who finish quickly. For
example, in B, you could ask any fast finishers to
think of and write down opposites for the adjectives.
For example, advanced / out-of-date, affordable /
too expensive, durable / weak.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson A | 150a

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 63 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 288 ────────

Academic Skill and then invite some students to
LISTENING
identify the type of specific information they need
to listen for. In particular, they will need to listen
WARM-UP 5–10 min
out for adjectives from the Vocabulary section
Have students look at the photo. Start a short class
in order to fill in the final column. Play the audio
discussion. Ask, What do you think people thought
twice so that students have time to complete the
when TVs were first invented? Did they think that
chart. Then check their answers with the whole
one day everyone would have one? In the future,
class by completing the chart on the board.
do you think people will have TVs? How will TVs
Play parts of the audio again as necessary while
change? With larger classes, write the questions
checking.
on the board and have students discuss them in
groups before reporting their ideas to the whole
Listen for details. Remind students that even
class.
when listening for details they don’t need to
understand every word they hear. Before they
listen, they should identify key words to listen for
A Look at the words in the Word Bank. What
that will help them identify the information they
technology is indispensable in your life now?
need.
What technology from the past was a fad or a
Take notes. Taking notes as they listen is a useful
flash in the pan? 5–10 min
strategy for students. It is important to provide
Go over the three words and phrases in the Word
opportunities for students to do this in class to
Bank, saying each one and having students
help them get into the habit. Taking notes (new
repeat. To help students, you could provide
words, key words, numbers, etc.) helps students
examples for the three terms in blue. These
organize and understand what they hear.
might include:
indispensable technology: cell phone
D Choose one piece of technology from C and
a fad: a type of diet that everyone suddenly
predict how it will be different 20 years from now
started following
and 50 years from now. Tell a partner. Do you
agree with his or her predictions? Why or why
a flash in the pan: a music group that had one hit
not? 10–15 min
song and then disappeared
In the Warm-Up, you discussed the TV from
Have students discuss the questions in small
1948, so you could tell students not to choose
groups, and then as a class.
this piece of technology again. To model the
exercise, choose one of the other devices from
B Listen for the main idea. Listen to a lecture
C and write it on the board. Draw a two-column
and choose the best word to complete the title.
chart: one column for 20 years from now and
78 10 min
the other for 50 years from now. Ask students
Go over the directions and have students read
how that device will be different in the future and
the incomplete title and the options. Play the
write their ideas in the chart in note form. Then
audio and have students choose their answer,
each student should choose another device to
which they should compare with a partner’s.
talk about and use the same chart to write their
Then play the audio again. This time, tell
ideas about how it will be different. Remind them
students to write down words that helped them
that they don’t need to write complete sentences
decide the answer. Check the answer with the
in their chart, just key words. Finally, assign
class and discuss which words helped them.
students to pairs to tell each other about the
devices they chose and to answer the questions
Listen for the main idea. Remind students that
in the directions. Call on a few students to
listening for the main idea means focusing on
explain their partner’s predictions. Discuss the
the general idea of what they are listening to,
predictions as a class.
without worrying about details. It is motivating
for students to realize they can understand the
© National Geographic Learning
general idea, even if they don’t recognize all the
words used.

C Listen for details; take notes. Listen again.
Complete the missing information in the chart.
78 10–15 min

Go over the chart with students and point out
that the first row, about the telephone, has been
filled in as an example. Have them read the

151a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 64 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 289 ────────

LISTENING

A Look at the words in the Word Bank. What technology is
WORD BANK
indispensable in your life now? What technology from the
Something indispensable is very
past was a fad or a flash in the pan?
important; you can’t live without it.
a fad something popular for a short time
B Listen for the main idea. Listen to a lecture and choose the
a flash in the pan something
best word to complete the title. 78
successful for a short time

Guessing the Future: Predictions about technology that were
.

a. reliable c. wrong
ACADEMIC SKILL
b. creative d. confusing
Taking notes
When you take notes during a lecture,
listen for the key information, such as
C Listen for details; take notes. Listen again. Complete the
dates, names, quotes, and numbers.
missing information in the chart. 78

Year Technology Prediction (then) Number Description (now)
5
“The Americans have    about
1876
indispensable
telephone    need of the telephone, but    billion
we do not
.”    smartphones
convenient
“The horse is here to    more than
reliable
1903    1
automobile    stay, but the automobile
is a fad    successful
.”    billion cars
“Television won’t last.    more than
1948    1.5    affordable
television    It’s just a
flash in the pan
.”    billion TVs
4.5
“The internet will    over
1995 indispensable
internet
fail
.”    billion users

D Choose one piece of technology from
C and predict how it will be different
20 years from now and 50 years
from now. Tell a partner. Do you
agree with his or her predictions?
Why or why not?

© National Geographic Learning
• General Electric made this TV
in 1948.
• The screen was 9.5 inches
(24 cm) by 7.5 inches (19 cm).
• The picture was in black and
white.
• In the US, there were only
four major TV channels.

Lesson A | 151

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 65 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 290 ────────

SPEAKING

A Listen to Alan and Kim’s conversation. Then
answer the questions with a partner. 79

Alan: Hey, Kim. I saw your sister on social media
the other day. She’s really changed a lot.

Kim: Yeah? Why do you say that? She still looks
the same.

Alan: Yeah, but now she’s got all these friends,
and she’s really funny. She used to be so
different—you know, kind of shy.

Kim: A lot of people say that about my sister.
They think that she’s this quiet person, but,
actually, she’s very outgoing.

Alan: Really?

Kim: Yep. Once she feels comfortable with you,
she’s really friendly, and she talks a lot.

Alan: Wow, I had no idea!

1. How do most people describe Kim’s sister?
Most people say Kim’s sister is a quiet, shy person.
2. What is Kim’s sister really like?
Kim’s sister is actually very talkative and friendly.

B Practice the conversation with a
SPEAKING STRATEGY 80
partner. Do you know anyone like
Offering a counterargument
Kim’s sister?
Stating what other A lot of people say (that) . . .
she’s shy.
people think    Some people think (that) . . .
C Read the statements below and
(But,) actually, . . .
check (✓) the ones you agree with.
Explaining what    (But,) in fact, / in reality, . . .    she’s very
1. Learning English is easy.
you think    (But,) the truth / fact /    outgoing.
2. Everybody should get married.
reality is . . .
3. Fitness trackers are affordable.

4. Wearing black is always fashionable.

5. Modern technology is always reliable.

6. The apps on your phone should be practical.

© National Geographic Learning
D With a partner, compare your opinions about the statements in C.
Some people say learning
Talk about the statements you don’t agree with. Use the Speaking
English is easy, but, actually,
Strategy to help you.
it’s hard.

Why do you
say that?
E Tell a partner something surprising about you or your country.
A lot of people think it’s warm in    Well, the grammar is
Mexico all year, but, in reality,    difficult and . . .
Mexico City can be cold in the winter.

152 | UNIT 11

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 66 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 291 ────────

C Read the statements below and check (✓) the
SPEAKING
ones you agree with. 5–10 min
WARM-UP 5 min
After students check the statements they agree
with, ask for a show of hands on the ones they
Say, Some people are easy to get to know, but
don’t agree with. Make sure they know these are
with others it takes time. Ask students to think of
the ones they’ll be talking about in D.
someone they know who is slow to open up. Ask,
What do most people think that person is like? What
are they really like? Students can answer each
D With a partner, compare your opinions about the
question with just one or two adjectives.
statements in C. Talk about the statements you
don’t agree with. Use the Speaking Strategy to
help you. 10–20 min
A Listen to Alan and Kim’s conversation. Then
When setting this exercise up, read the
answer the questions with a partner.
example conversation aloud with a student so
79 10–15 min
that everyone understands how to create their
Read the instructions and the two questions.
mini-conversations about each statement they
Students should listen first with books closed
disagree with in C. As students speak, monitor
and try to answer the questions. Then have
and make sure they are explaining their reasons.
them listen again, following along in the book
and working in pairs to answer the questions in
complete sentences. Students should be able to
E Tell a partner something surprising about you or
figure out vocabulary from the context.
your country. 10 min
This exercise offers students further practice
LANGUAGE TIP: This and these
with the language in the Speaking Strategy, but
students can be more creative by personalizing
These demonstrative pronouns are sometimes
the information about their own country. Again,
used in casual speech for emphasis rather than
have them read the example given and then
identification. For example, in the conversation in
allow a few minutes for them to prepare what
A, Alan says, “she’s got all these friends,” which
they are going to say about their country. If
means “she has a lot of friends.” And then Kim
necessary, suggest they write sentences about
says, “They think she’s this quiet person,” which
topics such as the weather, the population, the
is the same as saying, “They think she’s a quiet
amount of nature and beautiful places, the size
person.”
of the cities, or the personalities of the people.
You could also introduce the word stereotype
and explain that ideas about a country are often
B Practice the conversation with a partner. Do you
stereotypes (e.g., Mexico is always hot) but not
know anyone like Kim’s sister? 10 min
100% true. Students can think of a stereotype
Assign students to pairs and have them read
that people have about their own country and
and practice the conversation. Then have them
use this as their starting point.
exchange roles and repeat it. If desired, they
can change partners for additional practice.
If students are from the same country, they can
Afterwards, ask the whole class if they know
speak about themselves or about their hometown
anyone like Kim’s sister.
if it is different from that of other students.
Students should change partners several times
and make a new statement to each partner. Give
EXPANSION: Role play
them time to think of several things to say.
If you wish, students can go on to role-play the
conversation—standing, with books closed, and in
LARGE CLASS OPTION
their own words. Or they can revise it before roleplaying to talk about someone else (not Kim’s sister)
Rather than practice with several random partners
and speak as themselves.
in E, students can practice in groups of eight or ten.
Students may work with people sitting near them so
© National Geographic Learningthey stay within the group’s limited space.
SPEAKING STRATEGY 80
Before continuing, ask students to read the
expressions in the Speaking Strategy. Then draw
attention to how Kim uses the expressions in
the middle of conversation by joining two ideas
together: A lot of people say that about my sister.
They think that she’s this quiet person, but, actually,
she’s very outgoing. Explain that students will
practice this language point in C and D.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson A | 152a

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 67 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 292 ────────

C Complete the sentences with used or use. 5 min
GRAMMAR
To check students’ understanding and use of the
WARM-UP 5 min
form, have them complete the five sentences in
this exercise on their own. They can compare
Before students open their books, read sentences 1
with a partner afterwards and check as a class.
and 2 from A aloud and have students write down
They should be certain that they have written the
what they hear. Then have them open their books
answers correctly, as it is easy to make a mistake
and compare what they heard and wrote with what
with the spelling.
is written on the page. This exercise recycles some
of the themes and vocabulary from the unit so far
and introduces students to the new grammar form.
D PRONUNCIATION: used to / use to Listen to the
sentences in C and follow the steps. 81 5–10 min
A Read the sentences. Are the underlined verb
Write the first two sentences on the board and
forms talking about the past or present? How
point to the letter d in used in Sentence 1.
is the spelling different in the affirmative and
Explain that in everyday speech you don’t
negative forms? 5 min
hear this sound. Instead, the pronunciation is
the same as use in Sentence 2. Play all five
Give students time to read and study the
sentences so students can hear the similarity
underlined parts of the sentences before trying
in the pronunciation of used to and use to at
to answer the questions. Ask and answer the
natural speed. Then play the audio again so that
questions as a class.
students can listen and repeat.

B Read the Unit 11, Lesson A Grammar Reference
TEACHING TIP: Varying the drill
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below. 20–30 min
When we play sentences for students to listen to
and repeat, it is a type of drill. Normally, students
Have students look at the examples in the chart.
will repeat the sentence they hear at normal volume.
Ask:
But to add variation, you can ask students to say
1. What form are the verbs in? (the simple past)
the sentences in different ways. For example, in
2. What form is the verb after used to? (base
a mumble drill, students can say the sentence
form)
quietly to themselves. Alternatively, give students an
emotion and ask them to say the sentences in that
3. How do you start a Yes / No question that
way. For example, tell students to say the sentences
uses used to? (Did)
as if they are very happy or very sad. It makes the
4. Which kinds of sentences use used to rather
drill more fun and more memorable.
than use to? Affirmative? (yes) Negative? (no)
Yes / No question? (no)
E Follow the steps below. 20 min
Have students complete the exercises on
Begin by asking each student to take a large
pages 206–207. The grammar charts on
blank piece of paper and tear it into three strips.
page 206 include additional examples, question
Then have them write three things they used to
formation, and usage notes. Alternatively, you
do using the target grammar structure. When
could have students complete the exercises
everyone is ready, collect the pieces of paper
for homework the day before and check
and redistribute them so everyone has three new
understanding during class.
pieces. Then have everyone stand, walk around,
and ask questions with Did you use to . . .? If
they meet someone who answers Yes, I did, they
TEACHING TIP: Teaching inductively
give the piece of paper back.
Inductive teaching means giving students examples
and allowing them to generalize patterns from them.
LARGE CLASS OPTION
Here are some things to keep in mind:
As an alternative to E, ask students to write three
© National Geographic Learning
• Choose examples thoughtfully to show the
sentences about things they used to do. Then
pattern in the simplest form possible.
have them rewrite the sentences as questions. For
• Use as few examples as possible.
example, they might write: I used to be quiet and
shy. Did you use to be quiet and shy? Next, have
• Give students time to study the examples and
them work in small groups and take turns reading
look for the pattern.
their sentences and questions aloud. The others in
• Ask basic, general questions, and allow enough
the group have to answer the question. For every
time for students to think.
affirmative answer to the question, the student
• Call on individual students—and choose ones
receives one point. When everyone has asked all
you’re sure will know the answer!
their questions, students add up their total points.

153a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 68 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 293 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the sentences. Are the underlined verb forms talking about the past or present? How is the
The underlined verb forms are talking about the past.
spelling different in the affirmative and negative forms?
There is no d in the negative form (didn’t use to).
1. In the 1800s, people used to ride horses; they didn’t use to have cars.
2. My sister used to be shy, but now she’s very outgoing.

B Read the Unit 11, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

USED TO
Subject (not) use(d) to Verb
I used to wear glasses.
She didn’t use to own a computer.

Did Subject use to Verb Responses
you wear glasses? Yes, I did. / No, I didn’t.
Did use to
she own a computer? Yes, she did. / No, she didn’t.
Remember, don’t write didn’t used to or Did you used to.

C Complete the sentences with used or use.
used    used
1. People to write more letters.    4. Phones to be more reliable.
use    use
2. I didn’t to shop online.    5. I didn’t to eat meat.
use
3. Did you to be shy?

D PRONUNCIATION: used to / use to Listen to the sentences in C and follow the steps. 81
1. Notice how the pronunciation of used to and use to sound the same. In spoken English, the /d/
in used usually disappears.

2. Listen again and repeat the sentences.

E Follow the steps below.
1. Write down three true statements about things    4. Walk around the class and ask questions to
you used to do on three pieces of paper.    find out who the papers belong to.

2. Give the papers to your teacher.    Did you use to live    No, I didn’t. I’ve always
somewhere else?    lived in this city.
3. Your teacher will give you three pieces of
paper with statements from your classmates.    Yes, I did. I used
to live in Tokyo.

© National Geographic Learning

In the early 1900s, New
York City taxis used to
be horses and carriages.

Lesson A | 153

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 69 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 294 ────────

Jenny Tough,
running in the
mountains
on the Isle
of Skye,
Scotland

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Look at the photo of adventurer Jenny Tough. Which device do you think she takes on every trip? Why?
Listen and check your prediction. 82

a. a fitness tracker b. a laptop c. a camera

B Listen again and take notes about Jenny’s life in the past and now. 82
In the Past Now
Home As a child, she used to live in Canada.
She lives in Scotland.

On the boat, she didn’t use to go to school.
School / Work
She studied with her sister. She used to    She’s a professional adventurer, writer, and
work in an office.    filmmaker.

She traveled to the Caribbean with her    She’s never stopped traveling. She only
family. She traveled around the Rocky    brings what she needs to survive, and her
Travel
Mountains. She used to pack a lot more.    camera.

C Take notes about your life five years ago and now. Try to write down things that are different, if
possible.

Five Years Ago Now
Home: Home:
Family: Family:
Friends: Friends:
Work / School: Work / School:
Favorite activities: Favorite activities:
Favorite TV shows / movies: Favorite TV shows / movies:
Other: Other:

© National Geographic Learning
D Tell a partner how your life has changed in the past    My older brother used to live at home,
but now he’s away at college.
five years. Whose life has changed more?

11A GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Talk about devices
2. Mostly, yes.
Describe how things used to be
3. Not yet.

154 | UNIT 11

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 70 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 295 ────────

C Take notes about your life five years ago and
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
now. Try to write down things that are different, if
possible. 10–15 min
WARM-UP 10 min
Students should work on their own to complete
Start with a vocabulary review quiz of the unit.
the information about their lives five years ago
Divide the class into two teams and ask each
and now. Although the aim is to find some
team six of the questions below. A team receives
differences and changes in their lives, it is fine
2 points for a correct answer. If they fail to answer
to write down aspects of their lives that have
a question, the other team can be asked the same
not have changed. As they write, monitor their
question for 1 point. If you think your students could
progress and help students with any unknown
use a hint, you could provide the first letter of the
vocabulary they might need.
answer.

1. What shows you things on a laptop or phone?
D Tell a partner how your life has changed in the
(screen)
past five years. Whose life has changed more?
2. What means strong or long-lasting? (durable)
10–15 min
3. What do people type into? (keyboard)
Have students take turns presenting their life
five years ago and now. Remind them to use
4. What means you have enough money for
used to / didn’t use to in their descriptions. As
something? (affordable)
students listen to each other, they could take
5. What means you can always trust something to
notes by writing down what they hear using the
work? (reliable)
same categories listed in C. Afterwards, they
6. What is both an animal and a device? (mouse)
can show their partner what they wrote and
their partner can check that they understood
7. What means you can change something?
everything correctly. Finally, ask a few students
(customizable)
to read some of their sentences aloud and say
8. What first appeared in the nineteenth century?
what the biggest changes have been in their
(telephone)
lives so far.
9. What has a telephone inside it? (booth)
Diagnostics
10. What is popular for a short time? (fad)
Check students’ competencies as follows:
11. What is something you can’t live without?
• Can they identify someone’s favorite device or
(indispensable)
item of technology?
12. What means you don’t need to change the
• Are they able to take notes about the past and
battery? (rechargeable)
now?
• Are they able to talk about how their life has
A Look at the photo of adventurer Jenny Tough.
changed?
Which device do you think she takes on every
trip? Why? Listen and check your prediction.
82 10 min
11A
GOALS
Have students look at the photo and read the
caption about Jenny Tough. Discuss the two
Review student’s self-assessment in the
questions as a class and then play the audio to
goals box. Point out to students where
listen for her favorite device (which is mentioned
they learned these skills in the unit. If they
at the end).
rated their ability below Yes, I can, they can
turn back to those pages and review the
exercises.
B Listen again and take notes about Jenny’s life in
Talk about devices: Vocabulary, page 150,
the past and now. 82 10–15 min
A–D; Listening, page 151, A–D
Give students time to study the chart before
Describe how things used to be: Grammar,
listening. Remind them that when they take notes,
© National Geographic Learningpage 153, A–E; Active English, page 154,
they don’t have to write everything they hear,
A–D
just key phrases and short sentences for each
category (home, school / work, and travel). Point
out that the audio includes examples of used to /
didn’t use to. Play the audio once and then have
students compare their answers with a partner
and help each other. Then play the audio again to
check the answers as a class.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson A | 154a

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 71 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 296 ────────

to guess which household appliance or device
11B MAKING LIFE BETTER
it refers to. So if students ask you about the
meaning of any words in blue, reassure them that
VOCABULARY
the meaning will be dealt with in C and that they
should try to guess the answers with what they
WARM-UP 5–10 min
already know.
Have students look at the photo. Ask them to
work in pairs and answer the two questions in the
TEACHING OPTION: Phrasal verbs
caption. There are five devices in the photo (one for
each family member), but answers to the second
Before starting C, ask students to read the
question will vary. After two minutes, ask the pairs
information note about phrasal verbs and then ask
to report back their ideas. You could also extend
a few students to give more examples of phrasal
the discussion about the photo by asking these
verbs that they already know. At this level, students
questions:
will have already come across basic phrasal verbs
such as get up, eat out, put on (clothes), look at (a
• How similar is this photo to your family life?
picture), and turn off (the TV). In the description on
the page, it also mentions that some phrasal verbs
• Do you think these devices make family life
can be separated by the noun. Note also that there
better or worse?
are some phrasal verbs that are never followed by
a noun (e.g., I often eat out.) and others that must
A Rank the household appliances and devices from
have a noun. The rules for phrasal verbs are quite
1 to 7 (1 = very important, 7 = not important).
complex and not always helpful for learners at this
10–15 min
level to try to memorize. A good dictionary will give
Check that students understand and can say
examples of the phrasal verb being used in different
the word household appliance. (Suggested
ways if students want to know more.
definition: A device that performs a specific
task in the house, such as a vacuum cleaner
for cleaning the floor.) Then put students into
C Match the verbs in blue to the definitions.
small groups. Have them discuss each of the
5–10 min
household appliances and devices, giving
Students can work alone and then compare
arguments for and against its importance. Allow
their answers afterwards. To extend the task and
no more than ten minutes for each group to
add some challenge, ask students to think of
come to a final decision on their rankings. Then
opposite verbs. These are as follows:
invite groups to report back and see if the whole
log in / log out
class can agree on the order.
stand up / sit down
run out / charge up
TEACHING TIP: Scaffolding
plug in / unplug
scroll down / scroll up
Ranking exercises like the one in A are usually very
load / unload
effective in creating discussion and they encourage
switch on / switch off
students to give reasons for their answers. If you
feel students will need more support, you could
D Work in pairs and take turns choosing a verb
pre-teach or elicit phrases for expressing opinion,
from C. Act out the verb and have your partner
such as, I think . . . / In my opinion . . . / Do you
guess the action. 10–15 min
think that . . .? / What do you think about . . .?.
Students will also need to use comparative forms,
This is a fun way to use action and mime with
so you could review phrases such as . . . is much
your students. It often works best if you begin
more important than . . . / . . . is as important
by acting out a couple of the verbs so that
as . . . / . . . isn’t so important / Is . . . more / less
students get the idea. For example, you could
important than . . .? It might even be helpful to write
plug something into the wall (or mime doing it)
these two sets of expressions on the board, for
and have students call out the verb they think
© National Geographic Learning
students to refer to during their discussion in A, if
you are doing. Then put students in pairs and
you feel students require this kind of scaffolding for
have them take turns acting out the verbs. With
the exercise.
smaller classes, you could divide the class into
two teams and have students from each team
take turns coming to the front of the class; you
B Match the sentences below to items a–g in A.
point to a verb and they act it out. Their team has
10 min
to guess the verb to win a point.
For this exercise, students don’t need to
understand every word in each sentence in order

155a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 72 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 297 ────────

11B MAKING LIFE BETTER

VOCABULARY

A Rank the household appliances and devices from 1 to 7 (1 = very important, 7 = not important).
a. alarm clock d. remote control    f. vacuum cleaner

b. laptop e. smart TV    g. washing machine

c. phone

i A phrasal verb is a
B Match the sentences below to items a–g in A.
verb with two or more
words: the main verb
b
1. Log in with your username and password.
and a smaller word
d
(like up, at, on).
2. Where is it? I hate having to stand up to change the channel!
Some phrasal verbs
c
3. My battery’s run out. Where can I charge it?
can be separated
f
without a change in
4. I plugged it in in the living room, but it won’t reach the stairs.
meaning: Look up
a
phrasal verbs in your
5. We need to get up early, so I’ve set it to go off at 6 am.
dictionary. / Look
e
6. You can look up the show you want under search, or you can scroll
phrasal verbs up in
your dictionary.
down to see what's popular now.
g
7. Can you load it and switch it on? I need clean clothes for my interview.

C Match the verbs in blue to the definitions.
switch on
charge    6. turn on an electrical device:
1. put electricity into a device:
scroll down    plug in
7. connect a device to electricity:
2. move down on a screen:
stand up
8. connect to a computer or website using personal
3. get up from sitting:
information:
load    log in
4. put things into a machine:
9. search for a piece of information:
go off    look up
5. start making a noise:
run out
10. use up all of something:
D Work in pairs and take turns choosing a verb
Are you loading clothes into a washing machine?
from C. Act out the verb and have your partner
I know! You’re plugging something in.
guess the action.

© National Geographic Learning

How many devices do you see in the
photo? What do you think the family
members are doing on their devices?

Lesson B | 155

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 73 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 298 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5–10 min
With books closed, ask students
to work alone and make a list
Kashmir got a bad night’s sleep, her bed told
of every household appliance
her she slept poorly, which was very annoying!
HOW SMART
And to control everything, she had to log in to
or electronic object they can
thirteen different apps.
think of in their house (e.g.,
washing machine, TV, electric
IS YOUR
Surya’s Story
toothbrush). They have two
Meanwhile, Kashmir’s coworker Surya plugged
minutes. Afterwards, find out
a router1 into all of Kashmir’s devices so he
HOME?
which student wrote the longest
could see the information coming from her smart
home. He could see every time a device was
list and have them read it aloud.
In the past, people used to buy household
talking to servers2 outside the home and sending
appliances to make their lives easier. For
Ask other students to listen and
out personal information about Kashmir’s life.
example, it used to take a long time to clean
then suggest other appliances on
e
(4.) He knew when she got
floors and carpets, but then the vacuum cleaner
their lists.
up, when she brushed her teeth, and which
made it easier and faster. This is still true today,
TV shows she liked. All the smart objects in
but now, many household objects are also
c
her home sent this kind of information back to
“smart.” (1.) For example, when
A Make predictions. Look at the
the companies that produced them. In other
you switch on a smart TV, it often knows what
title of the article. What do you
words, Kashmir’s smart home had the power to
you are watching and when. Or, if you have a
tell other people a lot of information about her
think a smart home is? 5 min
device that turns on your music or looks up the
b
private life. (5.) 83
weather for you, then it’s probably collecting
Discuss why we might
some of your personal information. Two
1A router is a device that receives and sends information
describe a home (or an item
technology reporters, Kashmir Hill and Surya
between computer networks.
in it) as smart in some way.
2A server is the main computer that stores information
Mattu, decided to find out what living in a smart
from other computers.
After students have given a
home is really like.
few suggestions, you could
Kashmir’s Story
ask them to read the first
A Make predictions. Look at the title of the
Kashmir turned her one-bedroom apartment
paragraph only because it will
article. What do you think a smart home is?
in San Francisco, US into a smart home. She
give them an idea about the
connected lots of appliances to the internet,
B Identify missing information. Read the article
subject of the whole article.
including her lights, coffee maker, baby
and match the sentences (a–e) to the spaces.
monitor, vacuum cleaner, TV, toothbrush, and
a. However, there were also disadvantages.
Make predictions. Remind
d
even her bed. (2.) Kashmir
b. As a result, Kashmir and Surya started to
students that predicting what
could watch her house when she wasn’t there.
wonder how “smart” it really was to live in
they will read before reading
Her toothbrush sent her messages if she forgot
a smart home!
helps them be more prepared,
to brush her teeth. If she was cold at night, her
c. In other words, they are connected to the
bed turned up the heat. And she could use her
as they will have activated
internet and can report on your life.
smartphone to switch on her robot vacuum
prior knowledge and language
d. What were the advantages?
a
cleaner. (3.) Not everything
related to the content of the
e. He could tell when the lights were switched
was user-friendly. When she asked her coffee
on and off.
text.
machine to make a cup of coffee, sometimes
it didn’t understand her instructions. When
C Answer the questions about the article.
EXTRA! Jigsaw reading
1. What is the same about buying household
10 min
appliances in the past and today?
We used to buy them to make our lives easier, and this is still
In Unit 1, students were asked to
156 | UNIT 11    true today.
read part of an article and then
summarize it to their partner.
You can also use this type of
jigsaw reading exercise with
(She lived in an apartment and he
the answers. One common
this article because it is an
studied the information from her
mistake is that students read
interactive way of reading for
smart devices.)
the text before the blank and try
gist before continuing with the
to fill it without also reading the
© National Geographic Learning
rest of the exercises. Working in
sentences that follow. Tell them
pairs, one student should read
B Identify missing information.
to read the text before and after
“Kashmir’s Story” (paragraph 2)
Read the article and match the
the blank before deciding.
and the other student should read
sentences (a–e) to the spaces.
Identify missing information.
“Surya’s Story.” Give them one
10–15 min
It is important for students to
minute to read and then close
The article has five missing
develop the ability to identify
their books. Have them take turns
sentences. Students often find
what a text does not say on
summarizing what they have
this task challenging, so allow
a topic as much as what it
read and what the connection
plenty of reading time and let
does say. In other words, what
is between Kashmir and Surya.
students help each other find

156 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 74 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 299 ────────

is missing from a text? The
exercise in B will help with
this skill and it is commonly
used in higher-level reading
exams. It is a challenging
test of students’ ability to
identify reference words and to
understand the entire meaning
of a text.

TEACHING OPTION: Listen
to the article 83
One alternative way for students
to check their answers in B is
to listen to the audio of the text,
which includes the missing
A dog catches a ride
sentences. It is a good chance for
on a smart robotic
vacuum cleaner.
students to check their answers,
but also to hear the pronunciation
of any new words in the article.

ACADEMIC SKILL
C Answer the questions about the
Discourse markers
Discourse markers,
article. 10 min
such as however and
as a result, can connect
Have students work on their
information and ideas
own to answer the six general
in an article. Try to use
comprehension questions.
discourse markers in your
own writing.
Check the answers as a class.

Many appliances use smart technology    However,
D Read the Academic Skill box
2. What is different?
3. contrast something.
and can send information to someone outside your home.
3. What helpful things did Kashmir’s smart
4. show the result of something.
above E. Then underline the
As a result,
The toothbrush sent her messages
toothbrush and bed do?
discourse markers in the text
if she forgot to brush, and her bed heated up when she was cold.
4. Why did her coffee maker and bed annoy her?
E Circle your feelings about the article. Then
(including the sentences in B)
(See below.)
compare with a partner.
5. What information about Kashmir did Surya
that . . . 5 min
He knew when her lights were on and
learn from the router?
1. I am / am not surprised by some of the
off, when she got up, when she brushed her teeth, and what TV shows she liked.
information in the article.
Ask students to read the
6. Where did the smart devices send
Kashmir’s personal information?
2. I already knew / didn’t know this about
Academic Skill box. Check
Back to the companies that made the devices
smart homes and smart products.
that everyone is familiar with
D Read the Academic Skill box above E. Then
3. I think / don’t think there is a problem
the idea of words that are
underline the discourse markers in the text
with giving my personal information to
discourse markers: they do not
(including the sentences in B) that . . .
companies.
provide information but rather
1. introduce an example.
For example,
structure the information in a
2. explain something in another way.
In other words,
Ex. C, 4. Her coffee maker didn’t understand her instructions,
text. After students have found
and her bed told her when she got a bad night’s sleep.
Lesson B | 157
the four discourse markers in
the text, tell them to make a
note of them, as they will reuse
them in the writing task that
consider their feelings about
comes later in the unit.
the views in the article and
prepare reasons for their
answers before speaking.
© National Geographic Learning
E Circle your feelings about the
They can then work in pairs or
article. Then compare with a
small groups, or they can even
partner. 10 min
discuss the article as a whole
Have students work alone and
class. Encourage them to give
respond to the text by circling
supporting reasons for their
the words in the sentences.
answers.
This is a way to help students

Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson B | 157

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 75 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 300 ────────

LISTENING

A Complete the sentences with the words blind, sight, and vision. Use your dictionary to help you.
Sight vision
1. or is the ability to see things.
blind
2. If you are , you can’t see.

B Listen and choose the best answer to complete each sentence. 84
1. Doctor Spenser and the scientists a new tool.
a. will develop b. are working on c. have completed

2. The glasses have a small inside.
a. brain b. pen c. camera

3. The tool .
a. stops blindness from    b. gives blind people    c. gives blind people
happening    some vision back    perfect vision

C Listen for the order of events. How does the tool work? Read the sentences below. Listen again
and number the steps (1–5) in the order you hear them. 84
5
a. The person can see the pen.
2
b. The blind person puts on special glasses and looks at an object, such as a pen.
4
c. The picture is sent to the device in the person’s brain.
1
d. Doctors put a small device in a blind person’s brain.
3
e. The glasses take a picture of the pen.

D Use your answers in B and C to explain how this new technology works. What do you think of this
tool? Tell a partner.

The brain and the eyes
work together to help
you see.

© National Geographic Learning

158 | UNIT 11

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 76 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 301 ────────

D Use your answers in B and C to explain how this
LISTENING
new technology works. What do you think of this
tool? Tell a partner. 10–15 min
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Go over the directions with the class. Give
Write the word tool and this definition on the board:
students a moment to think about their
a device that you use to do a specific kind of job.
explanation and opinion. Assign students to
Say, A knife is a tool. So is a ruler. Ask what other
pairs to discuss the technology. Monitor and
tools students can name in English or in their native
provide help as necessary. Call on individual
language. (Some possibilities include a hammer,
students to share answers. Then discuss this tool
spoon, bottle opener, and flashlight.) You can
for blind people as a class.
also ask, Is a pencil a tool? A computer mouse? A
hearing aid? (Opinions may vary. There is no “right”
answer, and native speakers might not agree on
EXTRA! Write a news article 10–15 min
all the answers.) Finally, explain that in this section
As a follow-up task, ask students to use the
students are going to learn about a special tool to
information from the listening to write a news
help people see.
article about this new technology. They could
write a headline such as SCIENTISTS GIVE SIGHT
BACK! and then write a news report on what the
A Complete the sentences with the words blind,
technology is and how it works.
sight, and vision. Use your dictionary to help you.
5 min

Quickly drill the words blind, sight, and vision
and check that students can say them. Have
NOTES
students complete the two definitions. Then
check answers with the class. As an extension,
you could ask everyone to write three more
sentences of their own using the three words
so that you can check that they have fully
understood the meaning. For example, they
might write sentences like: I need to wear
glasses to help my sight. / At night, when it’s
dark, our vision is worse. / Stevie Wonder is a
famous musician who is also blind.

B Listen and choose the best answer to complete
each sentence. 84 10–15 min
Tell students that they are going to hear about a
new tool being developed to help blind people.
Read the directions and the sentences with
the class. Play the audio, give students time to
answer, and then check answers with the whole
class. Ask what they heard that gave them the
answer to the question. Play the track again if
necessary.

C Listen for the order of events. How does the
tool work? Read the sentences below. Listen
again and number the steps (1–5) in the order
you hear them. 84 10–15 min
Give students time to read the sentences. They
© National Geographic Learning
may remember the answers from their first
listening. If not, they should guess and then
listen and check their answers. Play the audio
more than once so that students can sequence
the steps correctly.

Listen for the order of events. Remind students
that putting events in order helps them clarify
their understanding of what they heard. It also
helps them organize information and ideas from
a spoken text in order to explain them.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson B | 158a

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 77 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 302 ────────

PRONUNCIATION TIP: as . . . as
GRAMMAR
You could point out that when we say as . . . as in
WARM-UP 10–15 min
a comparative sentence, we don’t normally say as
using the full form /æz/ but we use the weak form,
In Unit 2, students were introduced to the
pronounced /әz/. It is less important that students
comparative and superlative forms of adjectives.
produce this difference in their own speech, but
This lesson introduces them to another comparative
raising their awareness of it is helpful when they
form, so begin the lesson by reviewing the
listen. It is also helpful to show which words are
comparative and superlative. Have students look
stressed around as . . . as, so write two sentences
at the two cars. Ask, Which car is bigger? Elicit and
from the grammar chart on the board and underline
write the full sentence on the board. For example,
the stressed words:
The blue car is bigger than the red car.
Phone A is as big as phone B.
Then ask if any students own a car or have a family
car. Ask one student what type of car they own and
Maria didn’t do as well as Carlos.
then ask them to compare it to the blue and red
Drill students so they say the sentence, stressing
cars. Ask, Which is the best car? and then write
the underlined words and not stressing the other
their response on the board. For example, they
words. When students make sentences in B (the
might say, My car is better than the blue car, but the
next exercise), they could also try to use this stress
red car is the best.
pattern in their own sentences.
With the sentences on the board, underline the
comparative and superlative forms and ask
B Read about the two cars. Then with a partner,
students to name them. If no one can remember,
make sentences using (not) as . . . as about them.
tell them to turn back to Unit 2 to find the answer.
Which car do you think is better? 10–15 min
The blue car is bigger than the red car.
Have students look at the photos and describe
(comparative form)
the two cars; write their ideas on the board. Then
go over the information in the chart. Model the
My car is better than the blue car, but the red car is
example with a student. Assign students to pairs
the best. (comparative form / superlative form)
to compare the cars. Point out that they need to
come to a decision about which one they think
Now explain that in this lesson you are going to look
is better and why. Monitor and provide help as
at how to compare two things that are the same.
needed. Call on a few pairs to share one of their
sentences. Write them on the board so everyone
can check whether the sentences are correct.
A Read the Unit 11, Lesson B Grammar Reference
Finally, decide as a class which car is better.
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below. 20–30 min
C With your partner, complete the chart with two
Go over the examples in the chart. If possible,
electronic devices (for example, two different
show two similar-sized phones, or pictures
phones, two different tablets). In your opinion,
of them, as you say the examples. For the
which product is better? Explain with sentences
two negative examples, ask, Which is more
using (not) as . . . as. 15–20 min
expensive, camera A or camera B? Who got a
higher grade on the test, Maria or Carlos? Provide
Go over the directions with the class and elicit
more examples with objects in the classroom;
other devices they could compare. Write a list
for example, My phone isn’t as new as (name of
on the board and have students give one or
student)’s phone. My (tablet) is as big as (name
two example comparisons with (not) as . . . as.
of student)’s. Elicit additional examples from
Then, with the same partner, or in new pairs,
students. Have them complete the exercises on
have students decide on an electronic device to
pages 207–208. The grammar chart on page
compare and complete the chart. They should
207 includes more examples and usage notes,
then make their comparisons and decide which
© National Geographic Learning
expanding on the information in the chart on
one is better and why. Call on a few pairs to
page 159. Alternatively, you could have students
tell the class the products they compared and
complete the exercises for homework the day
which one they think is better. Alternatively, have
before and check understanding during class.
pairs join to make groups of four and tell each
other about their products. Write a few of their
sentences on the board.

159a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 78 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 303 ────────

Both the
Chevrolet Bolt
and the Tesla
Model S are
electric cars.

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 11, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
the exercises below.

COMPARISONS WITH AS . . . AS

Affirmative Negative

Phone A is as big as phone B.    Camera A isn’t as affordable as Camera B.
(Phone A is 15 cm. Phone B is 15 cm.)    (Camera A costs $200. Camera B costs $150.)
Phone A costs as much as phone B.    Maria didn’t do as well as Carlos on the test.
(Phone A costs $200. Phone B costs $200.)    (Carlos scored 95%. Maria scored 70%.)

B Read about the two cars. Then with a partner, make sentences using (not) as . . . as about them.
Which car do you think is better?
The Model S isn’t as affordable as the Bolt. The Bolt isn’t as expensive as the
Model S. The Model S is as durable as the Bolt. The Model S isn’t as popular as the Bolt.

Car 1: Chevrolet Bolt Car 2: Tesla Model S

price $35,000+ $100,000+

durability lasts 5+ years lasts 5+ years    They’re both electric cars,
but the Model S isn’t as
popularity popular only popular with the rich    affordable as the Bolt.

C With your partner, complete the chart with two electronic devices (for example,
two different phones, two different tablets). In your opinion, which product is
better? Explain with sentences using (not) as . . . as.

1: 2:

price
© National Geographic Learning
size

durability

popularity

Lesson B | 159

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 79 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 304 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Read about a robot. What problems does Paro help solve?
WORD BANK
Paro helps hospital patients and people with dementia feel calm in times of stress.
calm relaxed
Being around pets and    dementia a mental
animals can help people    problem in the brain that
affects thoughts and
with stress and older people
memories
with dementia. However, in
hospitals and nursing homes,
it isn’t practical to have real
animals. In other words,
bringing real animals to these
places would be difficult and
problematic. One solution is
Paro the
Paro the robot, an advanced
robotic seal
piece of technology that
moves and sounds like a baby seal and helps people feel calm.
For example, if a patient is very nervous, holding Paro can be as
relaxing as holding a real animal. Paro costs around $6,000, which
is expensive, but using Paro is easier than using real animals. As a
result, Paro has helped people all around the world.

Let’s choose doing
B You are going to solve a problem with a new type of robot. In pairs, choose
chores around the house.
one of the topics and think of a typical problem people have with it.
One problem
• building things (for example, a new house)
• doing chores around the house
is cleaning the
windows if you live
• doing exercise and getting in shape
• learning a new language
in a tall building . . .

C With your partner, design a robot that will solve your problem from B. Discuss the following:
1. What is the name of the robot?    4. Why is the robot as good as (or better than)
2. What exactly will the robot do?    a human?
3. What will the robot look like? Draw a simple    5. How much will the robot cost to buy?
picture of it.

D WRITING In the same pairs, write a short paragraph about your robot,
USEFUL
similar to the paragraph in A about Paro. Use the Useful Expressions.
EXPRESSIONS
However, . . .
E Work with another pair and use your writing from D to present your new robot.
One solution is . . .
In other words, . . .
Presenters: Present your robot. You can look at your writing, but don’t read it all.
For example, . . .
Try to remember the ideas. You can also show your picture from C.
© National Geographic Learning
As a result, . . .
Listeners: As you listen, answers questions 1–5 in C. At the end of the
presentation, ask two new questions about the robot.

11B GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Explain how technology works
2. Mostly, yes.
Compare similar items
3. Not yet.

160 | UNIT 11

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 80 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 305 ────────

Also, refer students to the Useful Expressions
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
and remind them about the importance of
using discourse markers in their writing (which
WARM-UP 5 min
appeared in the Academic Skill on page 157).
Ask students to open their books and look at the
photo of Paro the robotic seal. Ask, What do you
think this robot does? Who is it for? Write some of
E Work with another pair and use your writing from
the answers on the board.
D to present your new robot. 15 min
The important point here is that students don’t
A Read about a robot. What problems does Paro
simply read their paragraphs aloud, but rather
help solve? 5–10 min
turn them into a short presentation based
Remind students to refer to the Word Bank
on the same three-part structure given in D.
while reading the text to help with unknown
They should also include a visual aid showing
vocabulary. However, students only have to
their robot. The two students in each pair
identify the main problems that Paro solves and
should decide who will give which part of the
they don’t have to understand every word.
presentation. The two students who are listening
should think of follow-up questions.
B You are going to solve a problem with a new type of
robot. In pairs, choose one of the topics and think
TEACHING ONLINE
of a typical problem people have with it. 5 min
Students can give their presentations to each other
Assign students to pairs. Have them choose a
in breakout rooms, or the pairs could present to
topic and then think of a problem associated with
the whole class and screenshare a picture of their
it. As you monitor, you might find pairs that are
robot. Alternatively, to save class time, students
having trouble thinking of a possible problem, so
could make a video presentation and then share it
here are some ideas you could give them:
online for everyone to watch for homework.
• Doing chores around the house – reaching
high areas in a room / cleaning behind heavy
WRITING TIP: Marking and feedback
objects like bookshelves
In previous units, students have often read each
• Learning a new language – remembering lots
other’s work and given peer feedback. In this
of new words / understanding difficult grammar
lesson, however, there probably won’t be time for
• Building things – the materials are very
this, so don’t forget to collect the paragraphs written
heavy / it’s difficult in bad weather
in D at the end of the class so you can mark them
and give feedback; in particular, comment on their
• Doing exercise and getting in shape – without a
use of discourse markers to provide a structure.
trainer, you need someone to give instructions /
you don’t know how long to do it for
Diagnostics
C With your partner, design a robot that will solve
Check students’ competencies as follows:
your problem from B. Discuss the following:
• Can students understand a problem and identify
15 min
the solution?
Continuing from B, students should start to write
• Are they able to write a short paragraph using
more details and draw a sketch of their robot.
discourse markers?
They don’t need to write full sentences because
• Can they present and explain how something
this is just the planning stage. As you monitor
works?
their plans, focus on generating ideas rather than
worrying too much about error correction. (This
can happen in D and E.)
11B
GOALS
Review student’s self-assessment in the
D WRITING In the same pairs, write a short
© National Geographic Learning
goals box. Point out to students where
paragraph about your robot, similar to the
they learned these skills in the unit. If they
paragraph in A about Paro. Use the Useful
rated their ability below Yes, I can, they can
Expressions. 15–20 min
turn back to those pages and review the
Using their ideas for the new robot in C, students
exercises.
should write a short paragraph. You could
Explain how technology works: Vocabulary,
suggest that they use the following three-part
page 155, B–C; Reading, pages 156–157,
structure by writing it on the board:
A–C; Listening, page 158, B–D;
• Describe the problem
Active English, page 160, A–E
Compare similar items: Grammar, page 159,
• Describe your solution (the robot)
A–C
• Describe how it works

Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson B | 160a

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 81 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 306 ────────

B Watch a video with National Geographic Explorer
GLOBAL VOICES
Amber Case. Check (✓) the smart devices she
mentions. 10 min
WARM-UP 10–15 min
In this first exercise, students only have to
Explain that students are going to watch a video
concentrate on the devices that appear or are
called Calm Technology. Write these two words
mentioned in the video. They should ignore any
on the board and elicit or explain the meaning of
language they don’t understand at this stage.
calm (Definition: feeling relaxed, not being nervous
or angry). Then ask, What do you think calm
technology might be? Write a few ideas on the
C Watch the video again and choose the correct
board. Note that in the video, Amber explains that
answers. 15–20 min
she thinks some technology makes you stressed
Check students’ understanding of the words in
and doesn’t add value to your life—for example,
blue in the Word Bank and give them time to
when your phone sends you notifications with
read items 1–5. Answer questions about any
information you didn’t ask for. Amber then talks
other new vocabulary in the exercise before
about calm technology, which quietly functions and
playing the video again. Afterwards, check the
does its job without bothering you—for example, a
answers together as a class and play the video
quiet washing machine.
again, pausing at different parts to pick out the
key language for answering the questions.
A In pairs, try to remember information from the
article How Smart Is Your Home? 5 min
D In groups, discuss the questions. 10 min
Remind students about the reading and ask, Did
Students can begin by reading the three
the technology in the smart home make people
questions and making notes about their own
feel calm? (Some of it didn’t. For example, the
answers. Then, after a few minutes, put them
coffee maker didn’t understand her spoken
into groups and have them start to discuss their
instructions, and her bed told her when she
answers. At the end, ask some of the groups
hadn’t slept well, which she already knew!) Then
to report what they discussed, especially what
ask students to try to answer the three questions
they agreed upon; for example, for question 3,
from memory. If necessary, let them look back at
ask if the group agrees on one type of calm
the article to check.
technology that makes life better and more
relaxing. What is it?
TEACHING TIP: Recycling previous lessons

Try to recycle the topics, texts, and language
EXTRA! A class debate 30 min
from previous units and lessons. For example, the
Divide the class into two halves or put students into
task in A encourages students to think back to
large groups and then divide them into two halves.
a previous lesson and possibly turn back to the
Write this sentence on the board: Smart Technology
relevant pages. This is an effective way to remind
makes our lives better. Explain that the class is
students of content they have studied and to review
going to debate this topic. Ask one half of the class
vocabulary previously taught. Recycling in this way
to brainstorm a list of reasons why technology
is a very effective way to help students’ memories.
makes our lives better. Ask the other half to think
of arguments against smart technology. Students
can refer to the content and make use of the ideas
ABOUT THE VIDEO
in this unit as well as come up with their own ideas
In this Global Voices video, we watch a presentation
on the topic. After about 10–15 minutes, ask each
by Amber Case, a National Geographic explorer and
group to choose a speaker to present their list of
TED Talk speaker. In the video, Amber describes
opinions, either for or against. Have students make
herself as a “cyborg anthropologist” and explains
their short presentations and then the two sides
this term in more detail. Amber is especially
should debate the different viewpoints and ask
interested in the reasons why the type of smart
each other questions. At the end, take a class vote
technology described in the reading on page 156
on whether everyone is for or against greater use of
doesn’t make our lives better but instead makes us
© National Geographic Learningsmart technology.
more stressed. She wants us all to use technology
that makes us calmer. When students first watch the
video, they might be put off because Amber speaks
quite naturally. However, her ideas are illustrated
by visual graphics and animation, which will help
students understand her.

161a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 11, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 82 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 307 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A In pairs, try to remember information from the article How Smart Is Your Home?
It was about smart homes and smart devices.
1. What was it about?
The two people turned an apartment into a smart home with a lot of devices and
2. What did the two people do?
watched to see what information the devices shared.
They found that it can be annoying to live in a smart home and that the devices sent a lot of
3. What did they find out?
information back to the companies that made them.

B Watch a video with National Geographic Explorer Amber Case. Check (✓) the smart devices she
mentions.

✓    ✓
bed phone toothbrush vacuum cleaner

coffee maker refrigerator television watch
✓ ✓    ✓

C Watch the video again and choose the correct answers.
WORD BANK
1. Amber is a cyborg anthropologist. She studies how . . .
If you interact with
someone or something,
a. humans interact with technology.    c. technology works.
you act together and have
b. humans make technology.
an effect on each other.
2. A smart refrigerator can . . .
a. tell us what food is affordable.    c. make a grocery list and send it to a phone.
b. cook a meal.
3. Amber thinks that a lot of modern smart technology . . .
a. calms us.    c. is very noisy.
b. distracts us.
4. She thinks the Roomba is a good example of calm technology because it . . .
a. sends notifications to your phone.    c. plays a lot of different music.
b. works in the background.
5. In the future, Amber thinks designers should focus more on . . .
a. what technology is good at doing.    c. combining the best of both a and b.
b. what humans are good at doing.

D In groups, discuss the questions.
1. What do you like about modern technology (for example,
smartphones, the internet)?

2. What makes you angry about technology?
3. Can you think of any examples of calm technology that
© National Geographic Learning
make your life easier and more relaxing?

Amber Case is a National
Geographic Explorer, speaker,
author, and researcher.

Lesson B | 161

WLTB_L2_U11_ptg01.indd 83 30/04/21 1:29 PM

──────── Page 308 ────────

UNIT 12

12
ABOUT THE PHOTO
The photo shows the V-Train,
which is a sightseeing train in
South Korea. It was built for
transporting tourists through
TRAVEL
the beautiful Baekdudaegan
LOOK AT THE PHOTO. ANSWER THE
mountains. The train passes
QUESTIONS.
through valleys and the letter
1. Where are these people? What are they doing?
“V” in its name refers to the
On a train in South Korea. They are going sightseeing.
2. Name a place you want to travel to. Why do
V-shaped valleys.
you want to go there?

WARM-UP VIDEO
INTRODUCE THE THEME
In this unit, students explore the
A When you travel a long distance (for example,
concept of travel. The language
for vacation or to visit family), what type of
transportation do you normally take? Why?
in the two lessons supports
communicating on this theme.
B Watch a video about twenty-four hours at
Changi Airport in Singapore. What times of
In Lesson A, students learn how
day do you see on the airport clocks (for
to talk about preparing for a trip.
example, 7:00 am)?
7:00 (7 am)    12:00 (noon or 12 pm) 19:00 (7 pm) 6:00 (6 am)
They listen to someone preparing
10:10 (10:10 am) 15:00 (3 pm) 5:00 (5 am)

for a trip, practice listening for gist
C Watch the video again. Number the actions
(1–8) in the order you see them.
and for details, and then learn
1
a. A plane takes off.
how to say they forgot something
4
b. People serve lunch around noon.
and to talk about necessities.
5
c. Someone checks a bag.
In Lesson B, students read
7
d. In the evening, people wait
(and sleep) near their gate.
about traveling alone, practice
2
e. A man buys a cup of coffee.
reading for gist, guess meaning
3
f. A woman walks through shops with
from context, and think critically
her luggage.
about what they have read. In
6
g. Workers load luggage onto the plane.
the grammar lesson, they review
8
h. Engineers work near the runway.
question forms using different
verb forms and they practice
D In pairs, choose a place you travel from
asking and answering questions
(for example, airport, train / bus station). List
in the context of travel. The Global
all the steps a traveler takes from arriving to
leaving this place. For example, (1.) arrive,
Voices video shows a variety
(2.) check in, etc.
of speakers describing their
experience of traveling to, and
E Present your list from D to the class. Who
living in, another country.
wrote the most steps?

WARM-UP 10 min
Write Travel on the board and
then write Verbs, Adjectives,
Look at the photo. Answer the
that never sleeps and shows a
Nouns around it, as in a word
questions. 5 min
series of images filmed at
web. Put students into groups
Changi Airport in Singapore over
Have students look at the photo
of three and give them three
a period of 24 hours. Changi
and answer the first question.
minutes to brainstorm five
Airport describes itself as “More
(The people are tourists and they
words for each of the three
© National Geographic Learning
than an airport” and the video
are riding on the train through the
categories associated with the
shows lots of different activities
mountains.) Then invite several
main word Travel. For example:
happening—not just planes
students to talk about a place
Verbs: go, leave, arrive, ride, fly;
taking off. As an airport, it has
they want to travel to and explain
Adjectives: exciting, comfortable,
won awards because of all the
why they want to go there.
dangerous, fast, slow; Nouns:
different things that passengers
countries, train, plane, bicycle,
can do while they are waiting for
tourist. Invite groups to call out
WARM-UP VIDEO
their flights.
their words, which you can write
About the video
on the board.
This video has no speaking or
narration. It is called The airport

162 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 12

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 60 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 309 ────────

A When you travel a long
distance (for example, for
vacation or to visit family), what
type of transportation do you
normally take? Why? 3 min
Briefly discuss these questions
as a class. If you have
students who haven’t yet
traveled a lot in their lives, ask
them to make a list of all the
different types of transportation
they have used in their lives.
This will review the vocabulary
of transportation from Unit 5.

B Watch a video about twentyfour hours at Changi Airport
in Singapore. What times of
day do you see on the airport
clocks (for example, 7:00 am)?
10 min

Students need to watch the
video and write down the times
it shows. For most of the times,
we see a very clear airport
clock, though in one case the
video also shows a white wall
that is made up of a lot of little
clocks and that then shows
The V-Train is a sightseeing
the time in large numbers
train that takes tourists through
the Baekdudaegan mountains
(10:10 am). It is harder to read
in South Korea.
this clock at high speed.

C Watch the video again. Number
the actions (1–8) in the order
you see them. 10–15 min
You could have students try
GOALS Lesson A    Lesson B
/ Explain how to prepare for a trip    / Describe travel experiences
to remember in what order
/ Say that something is necessary    / Ask questions about travel
the actions occur before
they watch the video again.
Alternatively, play the video
once, have students number
the actions, and compare their
class on the board. Choose
most steps. Praise students
answers. Then, play the video
a place and brainstorm
for their use of vocabulary and
a final time so that they can
the steps a traveler takes.
help with any pronunciation
check their answers.
Then have students choose
difficulties of key words.
another and write the steps.
© National Geographic Learning
Set a time limit of about three
D In pairs, choose a place you
minutes, depending on how
travel from (for example,
experienced your students are
airport, train / bus station). List
as travelers.
all the steps a traveler takes
from arriving to leaving this
place. For example, (1.) arrive,
E Present your list from D to the
(2.) check in, etc. 10 min
class. Who wrote the most
steps? 5–10 min
If you think students will need
guidance with this task, you
Invite pairs to present their lists
could do one together as a
and find out who thought of the

Teacher’s Book UNIT 12 | 163

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 61 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 310 ────────

12A BEFORE YOU GO

VOCABULARY

A Imagine your friend is preparing to go on a long trip. Write down one piece
WORD BANK
of advice for your friend before he or she goes. Then share your advice
travel (v) to go to
with the class and take notes on other people’s advice.
places that are usually
far away: We traveled
across the country by
B Read the article. Is any of the advice from A in it?
train.
journey (n) going a
You’ve booked your tickets.
long distance from
Now comes one of the most
one place to another:
stressful parts of travel:
The journey took three
days.
preparing to leave!
trip (n) going for a
• Start by asking: Do I have
short time to another
a valid passport? Do I
place and back
need to apply for a visa?
again: I’m going on a
• Download a weather app so you know the temperature where
business trip to Lima.
you’re going and can decide what clothes you’ll need.
• Avoid taking a big suitcase. Leave the hair dryer and electric
shaver at home, but make sure you pack a travel adapter to
charge your phone if you’re leaving the country.
• If you get travel insurance, it should include medical bills and
any expensive items like cameras or laptops.
• Before you leave for the airport, check in online, and if you want
foreign currency, exchange some money before you get to the
airport—it’ll be more expensive there!
• Don’t forget to lock the front door and ask a friend or neighbor to
water the plants.

C Cover the article in B and match the words to complete the phrases. Then check
your answers.
e
a. a travel adapter
1. get
f
b. a weather app
2. apply for
b
3. download
c. the plants
a
4. pack
d. online
i
5. book
e. travel insurance
d © National Geographic Learning
6. check in
f. a visa
h
7. exchange
g. the door
g
8. lock
h. money (into foreign currency)
c
9. water
i. tickets

D With a partner, talk about your past travel experiences. How did you prepare?
What tasks did you do?

164 | UNIT 12

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 62 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 311 ────────

EXTRA! Additional reading comprehension
12A BEFORE YOU GO
5–10 min

If you would like to make greater use of the article,
VOCABULARY
write these comprehension questions on the board
and have students answer them. It is also a useful
WARM-UP 5–10 min
moment to deal with any new vocabulary and check
Have students look at the photo and ask them to
that students understand it.
describe what they can see. Elicit (and teach if
necessary) the words suitcase, luggage, baggage,
1. What is the first question to ask before you
and pack. Then ask students, How much do you
leave? (Do I have a valid passport?)
pack when you travel? Do you always pack too
2. What can a weather app tell you? (the
much or too little?
temperature where you are going)
3. How can you charge a phone in another
VOCABULARY TIP: suitcase, backpack,
country? (with a travel adapter)
baggage, luggage, check-in, carry-on
4. What does travel insurance pay for? (medical
The photo shows a suitcase, so it is a useful
bills, cameras, laptops)
moment to check that students know how to refer
5. What is more expensive at the airport?
to the object they carry items in. Older students
(exchanging money into foreign currency)
might use a suitcase, but younger adults often use
a backpack. They probably already know either the
6. Who can water your plants? (a friend or
word baggage or luggage, but may ask if there’s
neighbor)
a difference. In fact, they are synonyms and both
refer to the items that travelers take with them, such
C Cover the article in B and match the words to
as suitcases and backpacks. When traveling in
complete the phrases. Then check your answers.
different parts of the world, you are likely to see and
10 min
hear both words used. When traveling by plane, we
Ask students to begin matching the collocations.
also talk about our “carry-on,” which is the bag we
They should try to guess without looking at the
take onto the plane, and our “check-in,” which is
text and can work on their own or in pairs if they
any bag we hand over for transportation before we
want to. When they have matched them all, or
board the plane.
the ones they are certain of, let them find the
collocates in the text and check their answers.
A Imagine your friend is preparing to go on a long
VOCABULARY TIP: Collocations
trip. Write down one piece of advice for your
friend before he or she goes. Then share your
In C, students focus on the use of collocations. You
advice with the class and take notes on other
might have drawn their attention to this vocabulary
people’s advice. 10 min
feature in previous units, but it is the main focus
Before starting this exercise, go over the
of the exercise, so it is worth emphasizing the
information in the Word Bank and make sure
importance of collocations to students here. Explain
students understand the differences in meaning
that certain words often appear together with other
and use between travel, journey, and trip.
words, so when students learn a new word, they
should also make a conscious effort to learn words
In Unit 4 on page 57, students learned how to
that it typically appears with. For example, the verb
give advice, so you could review that grammar
go collocates with many other words, especially
point and remind students to give advice with
activities like go fishing and go swimming. The verb
You could / should / ought to / ’d better . . . .
check in, on the other hand, collocates with very
Then have students write one or two pieces of
few other words, one of which is online.
advice for someone who is going on a long trip.
Invite a few students to share their ideas. Write
some of the advice on the board.
D With a partner, talk about your past travel
© National Geographic Learning
experiences. How did you prepare? What tasks
did you do? 15 min
B Read the article. Is any of the advice from A in it?
Assign pairs and ask students to think of their
15 min
most recent travel experience. This will depend
If you wrote students’ advice on the board in
on the type of students you are teaching, but you
A, students can read the article and see if any
could make suggestions about the type of travel
of the advice listed on the board is mentioned
they talk about; for example, a business trip
in the text. As students read, they might have
for work, a weekend away, a family vacation, a
questions about some of the vocabulary. Explain
school trip, a study abroad trip. Remind students
vocabulary or encourage students to use their
to try to use some of the collocations from C in
dictionaries, if necessary.
their descriptions.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson A | 164a

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 63 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 312 ────────

D In pairs, look back at your answers in B. Take
LISTENING
turns saying the answers using sentences
with have to and has to. Pay attention to the
WARM-UP 5–10 min
pronunciation. 10–15 min
Check that students know the meaning of the
Have students read the two examples, which
word favor. (Definition: when you do something
are the full sentences from items 1 and 2 in B.
for someone else to help them. You don’t expect
One option is to have students write out the
anything in return.) Then ask students, Have you
sentences for items 3 to 8 before asking them
ever done a favor for someone? For a friend or a
to speak. If you feel they are not confident
neighbor? What did you do?
enough to do this, then assign the pairs and
have students take turns saying the sentences
A Listen for gist. Listen to a conversation about a
in full, pronouncing /hæstә/ or /hæftә/ in each
trip and answer the questions. 85 10 min
sentence.
Explain that you are going to play a conversation
and that Paula will ask Lewis to do a favor
TEACHING OPTION: Listening for the
for her. Give students some time to read the
reduced forms
five questions and predict the type of words
If you feel your students need more support to carry
they need to listen for (e.g., seasons, a place,
out the pronunciation practice in D, here are two
people). Then play the audio and check answers
options before asking them to say the sentences.
as a class.
First, have students close their books. You read
the eight sentences below at natural speed, and
Listen for gist. Listening for gist or the general
students write them out in full. It is useful dictation
meaning of the recording can include finding out
practice and focuses attention on the reduced
who is speaking, where it is taking place, and
forms.
what the main purpose of the conversation is.
Tell students not to worry if they don’t understand
1. Paula has to pack her suitcase.
every word at this stage.
2. Paula doesn’t have to apply for a visa.
B Listen for details. Listen again. Who has to do
3. Paula doesn’t have to check the weather.
each task? Write P for Paula, L for Lewis, or X if
4. Paula has to clean the house.
the task is not mentioned. 85 10 min
5. Paula has to check in online.
Have students read the eight tasks and try to
6. Paula doesn’t have to buy an adapter.
remember or guess who does (or doesn’t do)
each task. Then play the audio to confirm.
7. Lewis has to water the plants.
Listen for details. Remind students that before
8. Lewis has to pick up a package.
they listen, they should identify key words that
The second option is to choose one of the eight
will help them home in on the information they
sentences at random, say it at normal speed, and
need. In this exercise, for example, students
have students call out the number of words they
can listen for pick up a package, mail, and post
hear in the sentence. Has to and have to count as
office. When they hear any of these words, they
two words each, even though they sound like one
will know that the answer they are listening for is
word when they are reduced.
coming up.

C PRONUNCIATION: Reduced have to and has to
E Do you ever ask your friends or neighbors for
Listen to the sentences. Notice the pronunciation
help? If so, what do you ask them to do? If not,
of have to and has to. Then listen again and
why not? 10 min
repeat. 86 10–15 min
Go over the questions with the class and give
As a class, read the four sentences with has to /
students a moment to think about their answers.
have to + verb. Students at this level should
© National Geographic Learning
Tell them to write notes about their reasons. With
know the meaning, but check that they
a partner, have them discuss their answers.
understand it means you need to do something.
To follow up, write some of students’ “why not”
Play the audio and students will hear /hæstә/
answers on the board for discussion. Are the
and /hæftә/. Play the audio again and have
reasons personal (for example, they’re shy);
students repeat. Afterwards, students can
social (for example, they live in a big city and
practice the sentences in pairs and you can
don’t know their neighbors very well); or cultural
monitor the reduced forms, helping with any
(for example, in their country it is bad manners to
individual difficulties.
ask for help)?

165a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 64 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 313 ────────

LISTENING

A Listen for gist. Listen to a conversation about a trip and answer the questions. 85
Winter
1. Paula is in New York. What season is it?
To Hawaii
2. Where is Paula going?
Summer
3. What is it going to feel like there?
Two friends
4. Who is she traveling with?
To ask for his help with watering the plants and picking up a package.
5. Why is Paula calling Lewis?

B Listen for details. Listen again. Who has to do each task? Write P for Paula, L for
Lewis, or X if the task is not mentioned. 85
P P
1. pack a suitcase    5. check in online
X X
2. apply for a visa    6. buy an adapter
X L
3. check the weather    7. water the plants
P L
4. clean the house    8. pick up a package

C PRONUNCIATION: Reduced have to and has to Listen to the sentences.
Notice the pronunciation of have to and has to. Then listen again and repeat. 86

1. He has to lock the front door.
2. She has to get a new passport.
3. We have to check in online.
4. They don’t have to pack a travel adapter.

D In pairs, look back at your answers in B. Take turns saying the answers using
sentences with have to and has to. Pay attention to the pronunciation.
3. Paula doesn’t have to check the weather.
Paula has to pack
4. Paula has to clean the house.
5. Paula has to check in online.
her suitcase.
She doesn’t have
6. Paula doesn’t have to buy an adapter.
7. Lewis has to water the plants.
to apply for a visa.
8. Lewis has to pick up a package.

E Do you ever ask your friends or neighbors for help? If so, what do you ask them to
do? If not, why not?

When visiting Hawaii, you have to
pack sunscreen and a swimsuit.

© National Geographic Learning

Lesson A | 165

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 65 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 314 ────────

SPEAKING

A Esther and Mina are preparing to leave on a trip.
Listen to their conversation. What is the problem? 87
Mina can’t remember where she put her passport.
Esther: We have to leave in thirty minutes. Have you
finished packing?

Mina: Yes, I have . . .

Esther: You look worried. What’s wrong?

Mina: I can’t remember where I put my passport.

Esther: Oh, no!

Mina: It’s here somewhere.

Esther: When did you last have it?

Mina: About ten minutes ago. Let me think . . .
Oh, there it is. I put it on the dresser.

Esther: What a relief!

B Practice the conversation with a partner.
SPEAKING STRATEGY 88
Saying you’ve forgotten something
C Talk about a time when you lost something
I forgot + noun    I forgot my bus pass.
or forgot something important. What did you
I forgot + infinitive    I forgot to empty the trash.
do? Tell a partner.
I don’t remember +    I don’t remember turning
gerund    off the lights.
D Study the Speaking Strategy. Practice saying
I can’t remember where +    I can’t remember where
the sentences in the chart.
clause    I put my car keys.

E You are going to perform a short conversation
with a partner about forgetting something. Follow the steps below.

Step 1: Choose a location.
the airport the office

school other:

Step 2: Choose something you forgot to take or do.
ticket pack your toothbrush

report lock the door

textbook other:

Step 3: Write and practice a short conversation. Remember to switch roles.
© National Geographic Learning
Then perform your conversation for the class.

OK, it’s time to get    Oh, no! Can you call a
on the plane.    friend for help?

Wait a minute! I think I forgot
to lock my front door!

166 | UNIT 12

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 66 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 315 ────────

Assign students to pairs to talk about when they
SPEAKING
lost something. Monitor and provide help as
necessary. Call on individual students to share
WARM-UP 5–10 min
their partner’s experience with the class.
Ask, Are you a nervous traveler or a relaxed
traveler? Do you worry when you prepare for a trip,
or do you stay calm? Do you ever lose or forget
D Study the Speaking Strategy. Practice saying the
things when you travel? If any of your students have
sentences in the chart. 88 5–10 min
ever forgotten something while traveling, give them
Play the audio of the sentences in the chart and
time to tell the class what happened.
have students repeat them. Also draw attention
to the grammar of this language. You can follow
I forgot with a noun or the infinitive form. You
A Esther and Mina are preparing to leave on a trip.
follow I don’t remember with a gerund form of
Listen to their conversation. What is the problem?
the next verb, and I can’t remember where with
87 5 min
a clause containing a subject and a verb. To
You could start with books closed, play the
check students’ use and understanding of this,
audio, and ask students to listen for the problem.
have each student work on their own and write
Then ask students to open their books, play the
four new sentences in which they personalize
audio again, and have students listen and read
the sentences in the chart with things that they
so they can check their understanding. In the
typically might forget. Monitor and check that they
final sentence, Esther says, What a relief! You
are completing the sentences with the correct
might need to explain the meaning to students
grammar and word forms. Then invite a few
and how it is normally used. (It is often used to
students to read their sentences aloud. Write them
express that a problem has been avoided or
on the board and tell students to repeat them.
solved.)

E You are going to perform a short conversation
B Practice the conversation with a partner.
with a partner about forgetting something. Follow
10–15 min
the steps below. 15–20 min
You could play the audio again before students
In pairs, students should choose a location,
practice the conversation. When practicing the
decide what they forgot, and write short
conversation as a role play with books open,
conversations, four to six lines long. Write these
encourage students to try to look at their partner
sentences from A on the board for reference:
when they speak rather than just reading aloud
Oh, no!, It’s here somewhere, When did you last
from the page. Have students exchange roles
have it?, What a relief! Also suggest Are you
so they practice twice. If there’s time, you could
sure? and Why don’t you . . .?, which could be
repeat the role play but with books closed.
useful for continuing a conversation like the one
Students should stay as close to the script as
in the example. Partners should practice their
they can without reading it. Another variation is
conversation until they can say it without reading.
to let one student read the part of Esther with
While students practice, walk around and remind
their book open while the other student playing
them to use reduced forms of have to. Also
Mina has their book closed and tries to recall the
encourage them to speak with appropriate feeling,
lines from memory. The student playing Esther
modeling what they should do, if necessary.
can prompt their partner if they are struggling to
Finally, have all the pairs perform for the class.
remember the lines.

LARGE CLASS OPTION
C Talk about a time when you lost something or
In E, rather than have all the pairs perform for the
forgot something important. What did you do? Tell
class, create groups of four or five pairs and have
a partner. 10 min
them perform for each other.
Go over the directions with the class. You can
© National Geographic Learning
help students even further by writing these
questions on the board and telling students to
TEACHING TIP: Role plays
think about them by writing some notes before
At this level, students should be role-playing, not
speaking:
reading. Don’t let them write out full scripts as they
• When did it happen?
create their role plays. Instead, encourage them to
take notes only. They can practice multiple times
• What was the situation?
with their partner until the language feels natural.
• What did you do?
Then, when they present their role play to the class,
they shouldn’t have notes with them.
• How did it end?

Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson A | 166a

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 67 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 316 ────────

B Look at the trip preparation to-do list. The tasks that
GRAMMAR
are checked (✓) are finished. In your notebook, use
the words in parentheses to write eight sentences
WARM-UP 5 min
with has / have to or doesn’t / don’t have to. Check
Ask, When you go on a trip, what do you need to do
your answers with a partner. 10 min
to prepare for the trip? Do you need to buy anything
Tell students to look at the photo and the list.
special? Do you need to take anything special with
Explain vocabulary as needed. Read the
you (for emergencies)? Write students’ ideas on the
example and elicit another example. Point out
board.
that students need to use the present forms only.
After students have written their sentences and
GRAMMAR TIP: Must, have to
checked them with a partner, call on volunteers
to say their sentences for the class or write all
Note that the title of the grammar chart on this page
eight on the board.
is Modal Verbs of Necessity. Grammatically, must
is a modal verb, but have to is not. However, we
EXTRA! Rewriting sentences 5–10 min
often categorize have to as a modal verb with must
and teach them together because of their similar
Tell students to decide which of their eight
meaning and because we use had to as the past
sentences in B can be rewritten with the verb must
form for must. If any students ask you about this,
with no change in meaning, and to rewrite them.
explain the reasons.
Answers:

1. I must buy a backpack.
A Read the Unit 12, Lesson A Grammar Reference
2. Not possible
in the appendix. Complete the exercises. Then do
3. He must get a shot.
the exercises below. 20–30 min
You could start by writing a sentence from the
4. Not possible
listening on page 165 on the board; for example,
5. We must check in online.
She has to get a new passport. Then ask
6. She must pack.
students to imagine this happened last week and
elicit the sentence in the past: She had to get
7. Not possible
a new passport. Next, rewrite the first sentence
8. Not possible
with must: She must get a new passport. Explain
that has to / have to and must both mean
LANGUAGE TIP: first-aid kit, shot
something is necessary. Then ask students if
they can say the sentence with must in the past.
First-aid kit: You can buy a first-aid kit or prepare
Elicit that there isn’t a past form of must, so we
your own, including what you think is important.
have to use had to.
Some possibilities are adhesive bandages, your
preferred pain relief medicine, antiseptic wipes,
Have students study the chart. Point out that
sterile gauze pads, tape, thermometer. Shot:
have to and have got to have the same meaning;
The common US term for injection, a shot helps
have got to is slightly less formal and is used in
prevent people from getting certain diseases.
everyday speech. You could also ask any of the
Some countries require travelers to have certain
following questions about the chart in order to
immunizations before they go.
check understanding:

Which verbs can we use in the present? (all
C Complete each item with something that is true
three)
for you. 10 min
Which in the affirmative? (all three)
Go over the items with the class, clarifying
Can we use must in the negative? in the past?
vocabulary as necessary. Then have students
(no, no)
complete the sentences about themselves in
Can we use have to in the negative? in the past?
their notebooks. Note that the sentences in this
(yes, yes)
© National Geographic Learning
exercise are written using both the present forms
Can we use have got to in the negative? in the
and the past forms. Monitor and check students’
past? (no, no)
sentences for accuracy.
Have students complete the exercise on pages
208–209. Alternatively, you could have students
D Share your ideas from C with a partner. 10–15 min
complete the exercise for homework the day
Model the example with a student and point out
before and check understanding during class.
the follow-up question. Assign students to pairs
The grammar chart on page 208 includes more
to share their sentences. Monitor and encourage
examples, expanding on the information in the
students to ask additional questions to get more
chart on page 167.
information and keep the conversation going as
they would in real life.
167a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson A

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 68 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 317 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Read the Unit 12, Lesson A Grammar Reference in the appendix. Complete the exercises.
Then do the exercises below.

MODAL VERBS OF NECESSITY

Present forms Past forms

You must show your ID to get on the plane.
Affirmative    I have to buy a backpack for my trip.    I had to wait for an hour.
We’ve got to pack a travel adapter.

Negative I don’t have to check any luggage. I didn’t have to wait long.

Use must, have to, and have got to to say that something is necessary.

B Look at the trip preparation to-do list. The tasks that are checked (✓) are finished. In your notebook,
use the words in parentheses to write eight sentences with has / have to or doesn’t / don’t have to.
Check your answers with a partner.

To-Do List
1. buy a backpack (I)
✓ 2. prepare a first-aid kit (she)
3. get a shot (he)
✓ 4. renew passports (they)
5. check in online (we)
6. pack (she)
✓ 7. check the weather (he)
✓ 8. get travel insurance (you)

She doesn’t have to prepare a
first-aid kit. She’s already done it.
1. I have to buy a backpack.
2. She doesn’t have to prepare a first-aid kit.
People hike in the
3. He has to get a shot.
4. They don’t have to renew their passports.
Cordillera Blanca
5. We have to check in online.
6. She has to pack.
mountain range in Peru.
7. He doesn’t have to check the weather.
8. You don’t have to get travel insurance.

C Complete each item with something that is true for you.
1. When I was younger, I had to . . .    4. I’m good at . . ., so I don’t have to study it much.
2. Before I get on a plane, I must . . .    5. The last time I took a trip, I didn’t have to . . .
© National Geographic Learning
3. Before I leave home every day, I’ve got to . . . 6. In order to pass this class, I have to . . .

D Share your ideas from C with a partner.
When I was younger,
I always had to be home
early.
Really? What time did
you have to be home?
I had to be home by
8:00 every night.

Lesson A | 167

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 69 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 318 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Imagine you and a partner are going on a
camping trip for three days. You will be in
the forest, far away from any towns or cities.
You already have a tent. With your partner,
look at the fourteen items below and . . .

• circle the items that are necessary for
your trip.

• check (✓) the items that you would like
a tent
to bring but that are not necessary.

• cross out the items that are not
necessary at all.

backpack cans of food ice cream phone
bottles of water guitar money plastic plates and cups

cooking pot    flashlight    sleeping bag

first-aid kit    lighter    Swiss Army knife

B Join another pair. Together, you must decide what to take on your trip. You can
only take six items. Choose from the items in A and think of your own ideas.
Consider these things:

• food    • shelter    We’ve got to take
bottles of water. I like ice cream, but
• safety    • water    we don’t have to
© National Geographic Learning
bring any.

C Tell the class the items your group has decided to take and explain your reasons.

12A GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Explain how to prepare for a trip
2. Mostly, yes.
Say that something is necessary
3. Not yet.

168 | UNIT 12

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 70 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 319 ────────

B Join another pair. Together, you must decide what
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
to take on your trip. You can only take six items.
Choose from the items in A and think of your own
WARM-UP 5–10 min
ideas. Consider these things: 10–15 min
Have students look at the photo. Ask if they have
Working in groups of four, students should
ever been camping in a tent. If they haven’t, ask if
now discuss the six items they plan to take,
they would like to and why or why not. If they have,
which can include new items not listed in A,
where did they go and how did they like it?
if necessary. One option is to have students
choose four items from A and then think of two
EXTRA! Vocabulary guessing game
new items of their own to add. Suggest that
5–10 min
students use language for describing necessity
(e.g., We have to take . . .) and also language for
In A, students will have to discuss 14 different
expressing opinions and making suggestions,
items. In order to review or pre-teach the meaning
such as I think we should . . . , and Do you think
of all these items, you could write all 14 words on
we ought to take . . .?
the board and play a guessing game in which you
give a definition and students have to choose the
correct item on the board. For example:
C Tell the class the items your group has decided to
You use this to carry everything on your back.
take and explain your reasons. 15–20 min
(backpack)
Groups should choose reporters to present their
You keep food inside these to keep it fresh. (cans)
ideas to the class.
You heat up food in this. (cooking pot)
Alternatively, put students into pairs. Student A
LARGE CLASS OPTION
looks at the 14 items and chooses one without
telling Student B what it is. Student A then tries to
In a class of up to 40 students (10 groups from B),
define the item or say how you use it and Student B
reporters could read the list, then the other students
tries to guess what it is. For example:
could ask them to explain one of the items. In a very
large class, divide the class into groups of 12 or 16
Student A: You use this to see in the dark.
(three or four groups from B). Follow up with a show
Student B: A lighter?
of hands—which groups chose each item for their
Student A: No, not really.
final list? Or, tally the numbers on the board as the
Student A: A flashlight?
lists are read. Were any items chosen by all groups?
Student B: Correct!
Were any items rejected by all?
After Student A has defined seven words, have
students exchange roles.
Diagnostics
Check students’ competencies as follows:
A Imagine you and a partner are going on a
• Are they able to explain why something is useful?
camping trip for three days. You will be in the
• Can they describe what is necessary to pack?
forest, far away from any towns or cities. You
already have a tent. With your partner, look at the
• Are they able to explain their reasons for taking
fourteen items below and . . . 10–15 min
something?
Read the situation to the class, telling students
that they are going on a camping trip for three
12A
GOALS
days and will need to carry a tent and some
other items. Assign pairs and have students
Review student’s self-assessment in the
begin by circling items that they would like to
goals box. Point out to students where
take. Point out that the names of the items are all
they learned these skills in the unit. If they
given in the box, but only those words that might
rated their ability below Yes, I can, they can
be new for students are illustrated. As students
turn back to those pages and review the
talk, they should try to limit what they are
© National Geographic Learning
exercises.
going to take, circling those that are absolutely
Explain how to prepare for a trip: Vocabulary,
necessary, checking those that they would
page 164, A–D; Listening, page 165, A–D
like to take but aren’t necessary, and crossing
Say that something is necessary: Listening,
out those that aren’t necessary at all. Remind
page 165, B–D; Grammar, page 167, A–D;
students to use the language for talking about
Active English, page 168, A–C
what is necessary from the previous page, such
as, We must / have to take . . . / We don’t have
to take . . . . As you monitor, make a note of any
problems with this language and also remind
students to use reduced forms of has to / have to
when speaking.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson A | 168a

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 71 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 320 ────────

help each other and try to define the words as
12B ADVENTURES IN TRAVELING
they work. Set aside time at the end for students
to add two of their own words and then share
VOCABULARY
their ideas with the class. For example, to the
category of Verbs, they might add verbs such
WARM-UP 10–15 min
as go, ride, leave, come, or wait. They could
This page reviews and extends students’ range of
even add another category to the word web,
vocabulary for talking about travel. So begin with
such as Nouns or Types of transportation,
a review exercise of this topic based on content
and write additional words such as train, bus,
from Lesson A. Write these three questions on the
plane, bicycles. You could also drill some of the
board. Tell students to look back through the pages
words to check for pronunciation—for example,
of Lesson A to find the answers. The first student to
itinerary and schedule, which often cause
find all three answers should raise their hand.
students difficulty.

1. What is the name of the airport in Singapore?
TEACHING TIP: Word webs
(Changi Airport)
Students were introduced to using a word web in
2. What train are the tourists on in South Korea?
Unit 2 as an additional way to record vocabulary
(The V-Train)
on a topic. The power of a word web is that it helps
3. What word means a short journey to another
students make connections between topics, words,
place and back again? (A trip)
and information about vocabulary. It is especially
helpful in reviewing and extending vocabulary on a
Next, put students into pairs and have them write
topic. You could set aside time for students to look
three more questions based on the topics and
back at a unit from Word Link and create a word
words in Lesson A. They should write their three
web to review the vocabulary. Some students also
questions on a piece of paper and then exchange
find it helpful to use different colors in their word
the paper with another pair. The pairs should then
webs and even to draw small pictures with certain
try to find the answers to the three questions.
words.

A Read the email between two friends. What two
C You are going to travel for a few days with some
types of transportation are they using? 3 min
friends. In pairs, plan your travel itinerary. Decide:
Give students a time limit of one minute to scan
10 min
the email and say what types of transportation
Assign students to pairs and tell them they can
Sasha and Kimi are using.
choose to travel on a short trip or a long journey.
Have students discuss each of the three points
EXPANSION: Email reading comprehension
with key details such as the names of places,
5 min
transportation, and times and dates.
To extend A, write these questions on the board
about the email and have students answer them:
D With your partner, write a short email describing
your itinerary from C. Then exchange emails with
1. Where are they going to meet? (At the bus stop)
another pair. Which pair has the most exciting
2. How often does the airport bus leave? (Every
itinerary? 15–20 min
fifteen minutes)
Have students write an email similar to the
3. Where is the flight going to depart from?
example in A; they could even write their email
(Terminal B, Gate 29)
to Sasha or Kimi. They should use a similar
4. The flight might be late, so what time might it
informal email writing style with short questions
leave? (10:30 am—it is scheduled for 10 am but
and phrases, and also list their itinerary with
it might be delayed by thirty minutes)
important times. Set a time limit for writing (for
example, ten or fifteen minutes depending on
© National Geographic Learning
your students). Then have students exchange
B Complete the word web with the words in blue
their emails. Have them read each other’s emails
from the email. Then add two of your own travel
and say which pair has an exciting itinerary.
words to the word web and compare with a
partner. 10–15 min
TEACHING OPTION
Ask students to categorize the words in blue
from the email in the word web. They will need
At this stage of the course, your students are
to recognize the meaning of the word, its word
probably familiar with giving peer feedback on each
form, and in some cases its synonym. It is worth
other’s writing, so they could also give each other
having students do the exercise in pairs so they
feedback or point out any errors in the emails.

169a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 72 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 321 ────────

12B ADVENTURES IN TRAVELING

VOCABULARY

A Read the email between two friends. What two types of transportation are they using?
A bus and a plane.

Subject:
Plan for Tomorrow

Hi Sasha,
Have you packed yet? Here’s our itinerary:
6:00 am – Meet at the bus stop on the corner and catch the airport bus. The schedule says that
buses depart every fifteen minutes.
6:30 am – Arrive at terminal B and check luggage.
9:30 am – Start boarding at gate 29. The flight takes off at 10 am, though I got an email saying it
might be delayed by thirty minutes.
See you tomorrow morning!
Kimi

Send

B Complete the word web with the words in blue from the email. Then add two of your own travel
words to the word web and compare with a partner.

depart
itinerary
1.    3. arrive
catch
4. miss (a bus / train)
schedule
timetable    2.
take off
5. land
Information
with times and
Verbs
dates

TRAVEL
canceled (= not going)

Places to take
delayed
transportation Transportation    10. (= late)
status
boarding
station    airport    9. (= getting on)
stop
6. bus    on time
© National Geographic Learningterminal / gate gate / terminal
7. 8.

C You are going to travel for a few days with some friends. In pairs, plan your travel itinerary. Decide:
• where you are traveling to.
• which type(s) of transportation (train, bus, or plane) you are taking.
• what times you need to arrive and leave.

D With your partner, write a short email describing your itinerary from C. Then exchange emails with
another pair. Which pair has the most exciting itinerary?

Lesson B | 169

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 73 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 322 ────────

READING
READING
WARM-UP 5–10 min
Ask students who they normally
travel with. Ask, Do you normally
travel with family? With friends?
GOING SOLO
Or on your own? Briefly ask the
class for some of the advantages
IS THE WAY TO GO!
and disadvantages of each
way of traveling. For example,
traveling with other people means
How do you usually travel? Do you normally go somewhere with
you have to discuss what you are
your family, a close friend, or a group of friends? Do you like joining
a tour group where someone else makes the schedule?
going to do and where you are
going to visit; sometimes that can
Have you ever thought about “going solo”? In recent years, more
and more people have started striking out on their own. A recent
be annoying if everyone wants to
travel report found that a quarter of all travelers are planning a solo
do something different. Traveling
trip this year, and interestingly, 84% of solo travelers are women.
on your own gives you more
You may think that traveling alone would be scary or boring, but
flexibility, but you might be lonely.
according to people who do it, that’s not exactly true. Though solo
Note that students will explore
travelers have to plan their own itineraries and deal with travel
this topic in more detail in D, so
requirements like applying for visas alone, they often have positive
just take some initial ideas before
experiences and make new friends. Many enjoy booking the flights
students start reading.
and hotels of their choosing, and when planning and packing for the
journey, they only need to worry about their own wants and needs.

There are many different things you can do on a vacation alone.
A Read for gist. Read the article
Some solo travelers use the time to learn or practice an outdoor
quickly. What is the author
activity, such as golf, mountain climbing, or scuba diving. You can
writing about? Circle your
even go and stay on a ranch and learn how to ride a horse. Why not
answer. 5 min
pretend to be a cowboy or cowgirl for a day?

You may not believe this, but some travelers like to study on their
Set a time limit of two minutes
vacations. They even go to “vacation college” at a university or join a
so that students don’t stop
research team as a volunteer worker. This allows them to
and try to understand every
“play scientist” for a week or two while helping someone with his or
word. They should be able
her project. It can be hard work, but it’s also very satisfying.
to understand the general
For solo travelers of different ages and genders, there are many
meaning and purpose of
travel options. There are tours for women only and for people over
the text by skimming it for
the age of sixty. And, of course, there are trips for singles who are
meaning.
looking to meet someone special. One company offers trips that
focus on fine dining—there is time for sightseeing during the day
Read for gist. When students
and for sharing delicious meals with new friends at night.
read for the general meaning
So, for your next vacation, if you haven’t considered going solo,
or the “gist” of a text, they are
think about it.
“skimming” the text rather than
Bon voyage! 89
“scanning” it. Skimming a text
means you are just looking
at the surface meaning and
170 | UNIT 12
not worrying about details.
In contrast, scanning a text
means you are looking for
or expressions defined by
reading in A and by making
particular words and facts.
items 1–5. To help in their
predictions. If you want to
search, you could explain that
make the task slightly easier
B Read the article again. Which
the answers can be found in
for students, tell them that
© National Geographic Learning
of the items does it mention
paragraphs two to six of the
there are five correct answers.
about solo travel? Check (✓)
article (e.g., Answer 1 is in
your answers. 10 min
paragraph 2, answer 2 is in
C Guess meaning from context.
Students will need to read
paragraph 3, and so on).
Circle words and expressions
the text more deeply on this
in the text with the following
Guess meaning from context.
second reading. You could
meanings. Then compare your
Remind students that to guess
start by having the class read
answers with a partner’s.
meaning from context, they
through the eight items listed
10 min
should look at the words
and try to guess what they
around the word or expression
Have students read the text
think the text will mention,
they don’t understand. What
again and look for words
based on their previous

170 | Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 74 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 323 ────────

is the context of the sentence
or paragraph that the word
appears in? What part of
A Read for gist. Read the article quickly.
C Guess meaning from context. Circle
What is the author writing about?
words and expressions in the text with
speech is it? (verb, noun,
Circle your answer.
the following meanings. Then compare
adjective?) They should also
your answers with a partner’s.
a. the advantages of traveling alone
look at the pronouns in the
1. doing something new without other
b. memories of traveling alone
sentence, which might refer to
people
c. the costs of traveling alone
the unknown words.
2. things you need to have or do in
order to travel somewhere
B Read the article again. Which of the
3. a large type of farm with many cows
items does it mention about solo
D Think critically. Work in groups
and horses (usually in the US or
travel? Check (✓) your answers.
and follow the steps. 15–20 min
Australia)
1. the cost of travel
4. pretend to be someone whose job
Draw this table on the board
✓
2. women traveling alone
is to study and do research
(without the suggested
✓
3. preparing for a solo journey
5. unmarried people
answers) and have students
4. getting travel insurance
copy it down in their groups.
✓
5. learning new outdoor activities
D Think critically. Work in groups and
One student in each group
follow the steps.
✓
6. study vacations
should be in charge of making
1. Make a list of the advantages of
7. packing carry-on luggage
traveling solo. Use ideas from the
notes and completing the
✓
8. making new friends
article and add some of your own.
table. They should also be
2. Make a list of the advantages of
prepared to report back at the
A woman goes    traveling with a group of people,
end. As students give their
kayaking near Ao    using your own ideas.
answers at the end, you could
Nang, Thailand.    3. Compare your lists and decide
which is better: traveling solo or in
complete the table on the
groups. Present your conclusion to
board with their ideas and add
the class and give your reasons.
any of the suggested answers
below if necessary.

Advantages    Advantages
of traveling    of traveling
solo    with a group
of people
- book flights
- have fun
and hotels
planning with
alone (so
others
quicker and
- might be
more choice)
safer to travel
- no need to
- other people
worry about
can take your
other people
photo
while packing
- cheaper to
and planning
share a hotel
- learn a new
room
Lesson B | 171
subject or
- not lonely
activity
- meet new
people
EXTRA! Discussion
questions 5–10 min
Think critically. When we
Having read the text and
ask students to think critically
discussed the topic, ask students:
about a text, we want them to
Overall, would you prefer to take© National Geographic Learning
analyze the ideas in the text
your next vacation on your own or
and also draw on their own
in a group? Why?
background knowledge. They
can then contrast the sets of
ideas and evaluate which are
the most relevant.

Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson B | 171

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 75 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 324 ────────

LISTENING

A Make predictions. In pairs, look at the photo of National Geographic Explorer Andrés Ruzo.
You are going to hear him answer the five questions. How do you think he will answer them?
3
a. Are you planning a trip at the moment?
1
b. Do you travel a lot?
5
c. Have you ever had a journey where things went wrong?
2
d. Why do you like traveling?
4
e. How do you normally prepare for trips?
WORD BANK
When you go with the flow,
B Listen for gist. Listen to Andrés answering the five questions.
you are relaxed about a
Match the questions in A (a–e) with his answers (1–5). 90
situation and don’t try to
change it.
C Listen for details. Read the sentences and guess the missing words.
A person’s perspective is
Then listen to the whole interview and check your predictions. 91
their personal point of view.
1. Members of Andrés’s family lived in Peru, Nicaragua, and the
When an airplane is
United States    rerouted, it is sent a
.
education    different way.
2. His parents used to say, “Travel is the best .”
3. Andrés thinks traveling is like stepping into the pages of a
book screen
or walking onto the of a documentary.
4. Andrés says, “Almost 8 billion people across the planet are living and experiencing their loves,
you
fears, hopes, and dreams—just like are.”
interest
5. Many of his trips are for work. Others are to visit family or for his own personal .
everything
6. His advice is to prepare for and then just go with the flow.
7. In Miami, they often had hurricanes and bad weather, so his flights were often delayed, rerouted,
canceled
or .

8. According to Andrés, even bad travel situations become part of the adventure story that you can
home
tell your family and friends when you come .

D Work in pairs and role-play the interview with Andrés Ruzo.
• Student A: Ask the five questions in A.
National Geographic
• Student B: Answer the questions using some of Andrés’s words.
Explorer Andrés
Ruzo has traveled
to many amazing
E Switch roles and repeat the interview role play from D.
places, including the
Momotombo Volcano in
Nicaragua, as seen here.

© National Geographic Learning

172 | UNIT 12

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 76 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 325 ────────

Have students read the Word Bank, which
LISTENING
contains language taken from the interview. Then
have them read the sentences and try to predict
WARM-UP 5 min
the missing words before listening to the audio.
Ask, Are you planning a trip or vacation at the
Play it once all the way through and then play
moment? Where to? What are you going to do
it again, pausing the audio after the relevant
there? Invite a few students to tell the whole class
sentences to check the answers.
about their travel plans. When answering these
questions, students will need to use the present
Listen for details. Remind students to
continuous and be going to for talking about future
concentrate on listening only for the missing
plans and decisions. Remind them that they studied
words in the sentences in C and not to worry
these grammar points in Unit 1 and Unit 6.
about any other language.

ABOUT THE SPEAKER
EXTRA! Listen again and take notes
10–15 min
The authentic interview on this page is with Andrés
Ruzo, who is a well-known National Geographic
Before they do the role plays in D and E, have
Explorer, TED Talk speaker, and author. He is also a
students listen one more time and take brief notes
geologist and is famous for his work on the Boiling
(not full sentences) that they can refer to when
River Project in the Amazon. After the lesson,
answering questions 1–5 in A. Their notes might
students could do some more online research into
look like this:
his work.
1. – parents used to take him on trips
– nowadays he travels three times a week
A Make predictions. In pairs, look at the photo of
2. – always something new to explore
National Geographic Explorer Andrés Ruzo. You
are going to hear him answer the five questions.
– gives new perspective
How do you think he will answer them? 5 min
– hear stories and experience different ways
Have students look at the photo of Andrés. Tell
of life
them a bit more about him using the information
3. – yes, planning 8 trips
above. As a class, discuss the type of answers
he might give to the five questions so students
– for work, to visit family, and personal interest
can predict the type of language they will hear in
4. – does research about the weather, what to
the audio.
pack, places to visit, food
Make predictions. When students listen to audio
5. – an emergency landing on an airplane and a
in their books or in listening examinations, they
sinking boat
should make use of every clue before listening,
– delayed, rerouted, and canceled flights
such as the words in the question or what they
can see in a photo connected to the audio.
D Work in pairs and role-play the interview with
Andrés Ruzo. 10 min
B Listen for gist. Listen to Andrés answering the
Assign A-B pairs and explain that Student A is a
five questions. Match the questions in A (a–e)
journalist using the questions in A and Student B
with his answers (1–5). 90 5–10 min
is Andrés. Students can refer to their questions
Note that in the audio track, we don’t hear
and notes, but they should try to have the
the questions that Andrés answers, but the
conversation looking at each other as much as
responses are numbered 1 to 5. So, students will
possible rather than reading words off the page.
hear the number of the responses and then what
he says. To check the answers, you could play
Track 91 from C because this has the correct
E Switch roles and repeat the interview role play
questions added in.
from D. 10 min
© National Geographic Learning
In addition to exchanging roles and repeating
Listen for gist. Remind students when listening
the role play, students could also change
that they don’t need to understand every word.
partners and repeat D and E again if you think
By understanding the gist, they will be able to
they need more practice. Monitor and give
guess which question is being answered.
positive feedback for use of language from the
audio interview.
C Listen for details. Read the sentences and
guess the missing words. Then listen to the
whole interview and check your predictions.
91 10–15 min

Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson B | 172a

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 77 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 326 ────────

for each answer. Here are some suggested
GRAMMAR
questions that you could give students as model
answers and then they could try to create more:
WARM-UP 10–15 min
The grammar on this page is a review of the verb
1. Have you packed a toothbrush? (No, I
forms presented in the previous units of World
haven’t.)
Link, and focuses on question forms. With books
2. How are you traveling there? (By plane.)
closed, read questions a–f aloud and have students
write down what they hear. Read them two or three
3. Do they check your passport here? (Yes, they
times. Then have students compare what they have
do.)
written in pairs. Invite several students to say what
4. Can I go with a group? (Yes, you can.)
verb forms they think are in each question. Finally,
5. When did you go to Bolivia? (Last summer.)
tell everyone to open their books and check their
questions in A.

D Join another pair. Ask your questions from C and
have them guess the matching answers. Then
A Complete the grammar chart with the missing
switch roles. 10 min
questions. 5–10 min
Working in groups of four, have students take
Ask students to complete the chart with the six
turns asking their questions in C while the other
questions. Check answers together. As you go
pair tries to guess the correct answer. You could
over their answers, elicit from students their
have students repeat this exercise by having
understanding of how and when we use the
them switch pairs.
forms. For example, for the simple present,
students might answer that we use it for
everyday actions, habits, routines, and facts.
E Ask your classmates if they have ever done the
seven activities below. When someone answers
yes, ask a follow-up question. Write the person’s
B Read the Unit 12, Lesson B Grammar Reference
name and the extra information. Try to be the first
in the appendix, complete the exercises, and
person to complete 1–7. 20 min
check your answers in A. Then do the exercises
For this final practice exercise, students will
below. 20–30 min
need to stand and walk around the class, so
Have students turn to the Grammar Reference
create lots of space. Have students start by
to check their understanding and complete the
asking a Have you ever . . .? question using the
practice exercises. Unlike previous lessons, the
present perfect. Then have them ask follow-up
grammar in this class is a review, so students
questions to get further information. You could
might feel reasonably confident having studied
do the first question together as a class and
it before. If you think everyone seems confident,
think of additional follow-up questions. The aim
then you could assign the practice exercises for
is to complete the table with the names of seven
homework and go straight to C.
different students from the class.

PRONUNCIATION TIP: Question intonation
LARGE CLASS OPTION
You could drill the question forms in A and B
Put students into groups of eight and have them
with students listening and repeating. Explain to
interview all the people in that group. If no one in
students that there are two categories of questions
their group has done certain activities, they should
in the chart (Yes / No questions and Wh- questions)
leave those rows blank.
and that when they hear these questions, they
might also notice how the intonation tends to rise at
the end of Yes / No questions and fall at the end of
TEACHING ONLINE
Wh- questions. You could also read the questions
If you are teaching online, students could work in
aloud and have students repeat them with rising or
pairs in breakout rooms and interview each other,
falling intonation.
© National Geographic Learning
making a note of what they have and haven’t
done. If you have time, you could assign them
new partners and a new breakout room, but you
C Work in pairs and write questions about travel to
probably won’t have time for them to do seven
match the answers. 10–15 min
interviews online. After they have carried out a
Do the first one together as a class by eliciting
couple of interviews, bring the whole class back
possible questions for item 1. Point out that the
to the main room, talk through each question, and
question must be in the present perfect because
invite students to report back on someone they
the answer has haven’t in it. Also, emphasize
interviewed who had done the activity.
that there is more than one possible question

173a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 78 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 327 ────────

GRAMMAR

A Complete the grammar chart with the missing questions.
a. Did you have to get a visa?    d. Can you show me your passport?
b. Are you planning a trip now?    e. Where do you usually go?
c. How long will you be away for?    f. How many times have you been there?

QUESTION FORM REVIEW
Yes / No questions Wh- questions
e
Simple present Do you travel a lot? 1.
b
Present continuous 2. Where are you thinking of going next?
f
Present perfect Have you ever been to Rome? 3.
a
Simple past 4. When did you apply for it?
c
Future with will Will you ever go there again? 5.
Modal verbs
d
(can, should, etc.) 6. How can I change my seat?

B Read the Unit 12, Lesson B Grammar Reference in the appendix, complete the exercises, and
check your answers in A. Then do the exercises below.

C Work in pairs and write questions about travel to match the answers.
1. No, I haven’t.    3. Yes, they do.    5. Last summer.
2. By plane.    4. Yes, you can.

D Join another pair. Ask your questions from C and have them guess the matching answers.
Then switch roles.

E Ask your classmates if they have ever done the seven activities below. When someone answers
yes, ask a follow-up question. Write the person’s name and the extra information. Try to be the
first person to complete 1–7.

Have you ever . . .? Name Extra information

1. visit / a big city
Have you ever visited a big city?

2. be / on a train
Have you ever been on a train?

3. talk / to a flight attendant
Have you ever talked to a flight attendant?

4. forget / something on a trip
Have you ever forgotten something on a trip?

5. lose / your luggage
© National Geographic LearningHave you ever lost your luggage?
6. get / sick while traveling
Have you ever gotten sick while traveling?

7. miss / a flight, train, or bus
Have you ever missed a flight, train, or bus?

Have you ever visited    Which city did
a big city?    you visit?
Yes, I have.

Lesson B | 173

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 79 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 328 ────────

ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!

A Look at the photo of a customer survey machine at Heathrow
Airport in London, UK. What other types of places, services, or
products ask people to rate them? Do you ever rate products or
answer customer surveys? Tell the class.

B Work in pairs and read the questions from different customer
surveys. Match each place or service in the box to two questions.
Write H for hotel, A for airline, etc.

airline (A) bus (B) hotel (H) restaurant (R) tour group (T)

A
R
1. Have you flown with us before?
6. How polite was your server today?
2. How did you hear about our sightseeing
7. Will you recommend our meals to others in
T    R
trips?
the future?
T
3. Did you take off and land on time
8. How would you rate your guide today?
A
today?
9. Do you normally book your room on our
H
website?
4. Was your driver welcoming and
B
friendly?
10. What feedback can you give on your
H    B
journey to the airport today?
5. What was the reason for your stay?

C Read the Academic Skill and categorize the questions
ACADEMIC SKILL
in B as closed questions or open questions.
Closed and open questions
Closed: 1, 3, 4, 7, 9 Open: 2, 5, 6, 8, 10
When you want to find out information and
D WRITING In pairs, choose one of the places or services
do research, ask both closed questions and
in B and imagine you work at the company that owns it.
open questions. Closed questions have yes /
Follow the steps:
no answers and are good for getting results
(for example, Will you fly with us again in the
1. Make a list of things you want to know about your
future?). Open questions are good for finding
customers and their experiences.
out more information because they need
longer answers (for example, How did you
2. Write a customer satisfaction survey. You can use the
find out about our services?).
questions from B and also write seven or eight new
questions. Include both open and closed questions.

USEFUL EXPRESSIONS
Have you ever . . .?
E After you have written your survey, exchange with another
Do / Did you . . .?
pair and answer the questions below about their survey.
Was your . . . excellent / good / poor?
1. Are the questions written correctly?
How would you rate . . .?
2. Is the survey easy to follow?
Can you give us feedback on . . .?
3. Are there both closed questions and open questions?
What was the reason . . .?
© National Geographic Learning
How comfortable / polite / friendly was your . . .?
Will / Would you recommend us to . . .?

12B GOALS Now I can . . .

1. Yes, I can.
Describe travel experiences
2. Mostly, yes.
Ask questions about travel
3. Not yet.

174 | UNIT 12

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 80 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 329 ────────

For example, if they are at an airport, then the
ACTIVE ENGLISH Try it out!
following might be important: transportation
to the airport, parking, cleanliness, customer
WARM-UP 5 min
service and friendly staff, short distance to the
Draw these emoticons on the board: . Ask
check-in, efficient passport control and customs,
students, What do they normally mean? When do
comfortable waiting areas, lots of shops and
we use them? Where else do you see them? Elicit
restaurants, etc. In step 2, students should start
the idea that they represent when we are happy,
writing their list of questions. They will find the
sad, or angry, or somewhere in between. Students
suggestions for question types in the Useful
will probably say that they use them with friends
Expressions box helpful to refer to. As you monitor
in text messages or emails. Also, explain that they
their progress, point out if any of their questions
are sometimes used as a way to get feedback from
contain grammatical errors and refer them back to
people on products or services.
the grammar chart on page 173, if necessary.

A Look at the photo of a customer survey machine
E After you have written your survey, exchange with
at Heathrow Airport in London, UK. What other
another pair and answer the questions below
types of places, services, or products ask people
about their survey. 10 min
to rate them? Do you ever rate products or
Have pairs exchange their writing and assess
answer customer surveys? Tell the class.
each other’s work for grammatical accuracy,
5–10 min
clarity, and a range of question types. They can
Continue the class discussion in the Warm-Up by
deliver their feedback to the other pair by writing
talking about the survey machine in the photo and
a short report on a separate piece of paper, or
other ways in which we rate things. Mention the
they can give their feedback orally.
idea that we sometimes use numbers as well as
emoticons or emojis. Ask students if they ever rate
EXPANSION: Complete the survey 10 min
products and services and why or why not.
In E, rather than hand the survey right back to the
other pair, students could imagine that they are
B Work in pairs and read the questions from
real customers of the place or the service in the
different customer surveys. Match each place or
survey. They can complete the survey with made-up
service in the box to two questions. Write H for
answers, which provides further writing practice,
hotel, A for airline, etc. 5–10 min
but is also a useful test of whether the survey really
Ask students to look at the services and places in
works. Alternatively, once students have received
the box. Ask how you might rate some of these;
feedback on the survey in E, they could make
for example, with an airline you might rate how
any necessary changes and improvements and
easy it is to book a ticket or how comfortable
produce a final draft that they then hand out to
the seats are. Then have students match the
everyone in the class to try to answer.
questions. Check answers as a class.

Diagnostics
C Read the Academic Skill and categorize the
Check students’ competencies as follows:
questions in B as closed questions or open
• Can students identify different types of travel
questions. 5 min
survey questions?
Go over the Academic Skill and check that
• Are they able to write a range of question types
students understand the difference between the
for a survey?
two question types. Make sure students realize
one type of question is not better than another,
• Can they categorize closed and open questions?
but that any good survey or research should
contain a mixture of both. Then have students
© National Geographic Learning12B
GOALS
categorize the ten questions in B.
Review student’s self-assessment in the goals
box. Point out to students where they learned
D WRITING In pairs, choose one of the places
these skills in the unit. If they rated their ability
or services in B and imagine you work at the
below Yes, I can, they can turn back to those
company that owns it. Follow the steps: 15–20 min
pages and review the exercises.
Assign students to pairs and have them begin
Describe travel experiences: Vocabulary,
by choosing one of the five places or services.
page 169, A–D; Reading, page 171, A–D;
Alternatively, you could assign them to make
Listening, page 172, C–E
sure different pairs are working on different types
Ask questions about travel: Listening,
of surveys. In step 1, students should begin by
page 172, A and D–E; Grammar, page 173,
listing the things they want to know. If you think
A–E
students will need ideas for this, tell them to
imagine they are at the place or using a service.
Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson B | 174a

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 81 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 330 ────────

VIDEO VIEWING TIP: Viewing for gist / viewing
GLOBAL VOICES
for details

WARM-UP 10 min
In B, students are watching for the first time and
trying to understand the gist. Expect them to watch
Write on the board, A dream vacation. Explain that
the images and the questions appearing on the
students are at the end of the World Link course and
screen rather than trying to understand every word.
that, to celebrate, they can go on a dream vacation
In C, students have to watch the video and listen
to anywhere in the world. In pairs, they have two
carefully for specific words and information. This
minutes to answer: Where will they go? What type
is similar to listening for details, so, unlike in B,
of vacation will it be? What will they do? Then invite
students will tend to listen and write in their books
their ideas and write some of them on the board.
rather than watch the images.

A Discuss the questions as a class. 5–10 min
If necessary, have students discuss the
D Prepare a two-minute presentation for visitors to
questions in pairs for two minutes before
your country. Your presentation should include
answering them in front of the class. By now,
information and advice on . . . 10 min
you will also have a good idea of whether your
There are different ways to approach this final
students can easily answer these questions
exercise and it will depend on how much
depending on their age and life experience. If
time you have. Students could prepare the
you don’t think they have traveled much to other
presentation on their own, or if you have students
countries, point out that they can still answer
from the same country, they could work and
these questions about any experience they
present in groups.
have had while traveling in their own country
or spending time away from home. Also be
For a shorter option (and also with larger
prepared to clarify the meaning of the noun
classes), have students write a short
homesickness and to teach the adjective (to feel)
presentation about their country using the
homesick: When you miss your home and the
Useful Expressions. Then they can read their
people there because you are away from it.
presentation to a partner.

For a longer option, ask students to prepare their
ABOUT THE VIDEO
presentations at home and create a PowerPoint
In this Global Voices video, students studying
presentation with slides showing parts of their
English talk about their experiences of travel and
country. Then set aside time in the following
the countries they have visited. These students are
lesson (or lessons) for students to give their
living in the US, so they describe the differences
presentations, and allow time afterwards for the
between their own country and the US; this includes
students listening to ask questions.
talking about whether they ever feel homesick or if
they miss certain aspects of their home country.
TEACHING ONLINE
Have students give their presentation either using
B Watch a video. Number the topics (1–4) in the
screenshare and showing it to the class on screen,
order they are discussed. 10 min
or by making a recording of their presentation and
This first viewing task is an opportunity to
sharing it with the class.
watch and understand the main gist of the
video and the speakers. Students don’t need to
understand every word at this stage because
TEACHING OPTION
they can answer by using the information from
The presentation task in D is for students to talk
the questions on the screen, some of the visuals,
about their own country as if someone is going
and the main points from the speakers.
to visit them. However, if you have students who
have traveled and spent time in other countries,
C Watch the video again. For each question, check
they might be more interested in telling the class
© National Geographic Learning
(✓) the answers you hear. 15–20 min
about their experiences. So ask them to give this
alternative presentation about:
Allow time for students to read the questions
and have them try to guess some of the answers
• The country they visited and the reasons they
from having watched the video in B. Point out
went there
that they will need to check quite a few answers
in each question; you could even tell them how
• Daily life in that country and some of the main
many to listen out for in each case: 6 answers
differences they noticed
in 1 and 2, 4 answers in 3 and 4. Play the video
• What they missed about home and how they
twice, once all the way through, and then again,
dealt with homesickness
stopping after each of the four sections so you
can discuss the answers.

175a | Teacher’s Book UNIT 12, Lesson B

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 82 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 331 ────────

GLOBAL VOICES
A Discuss the questions as a class.
1. Do you enjoy traveling to new places or other countries? Why or why not?
2. Have you ever been away from home for a long time? Did you feel homesick? What did you miss?

B Watch a video. Number the topics (1–4) in the order they are discussed.
2    1
a. Countries the students have traveled to    c. Reasons they enjoy traveling
3    4
b. Differences between their countries    d. Homesickness and missing home
and the US

C Watch the video again. For each question, check (✓) the answers you hear.
1. What do the students in the video like about traveling?
✓
✓ ✓
experiencing new things making new friends trying new food

✓ ✓
going shopping meeting new people visiting new places

✓
learning about new cultures staying in hotels

2. Which countries have they visited?
✓ ✓    ✓
Argentina Greece Italy Mexico

✓ ✓    ✓
Colombia India Jamaica Peru

3. What differences did they notice between their home country and the US?
✓    ✓
the cars the coffee size the language

✓    ✓
the clothes the landscape the weather

4. What do they miss about home?
✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
family and friends food holidays sports TV weather

D Prepare a two-minute presentation for visitors to your
country. Your presentation should include information
USEFUL EXPRESSIONS
and advice on . . .
Today, I’d like to talk about . . .
First of all, . . .
• daily life in your country and differences visitors
Take a look at this picture. It shows . . .
might notice.
One difference is that . . .
• ways to meet people and things to do when you
Next, I’m going to talk about . . .
feel homesick.
Thanks for listening. Are there any questions?
You can use images in your presentation.

© National Geographic Learning
The view from City Palace
in Udaipur, India

Lesson B | 175

WLTB_L2_U12_ptg01.indd 83 30/04/21 1:30 PM

──────── Page 332 ────────

REAL WORLD LINK MAKE A TRAVEL AD
This photo, taken in a Japanese-style garden in
Almaty, Kazakhstan, is part of a social media
trend called “Follow Me To,” in which the person
in the photo seems to lead the photographer to an
amazing travel destination.

A Where do you often see advertisements? Compare the places for advertising and rank them from
1 to 7 (1 = most effective, 7 = least effective). Then discuss with a partner.

in a newspaper on the radio in the street on a website

on public transportation on social media on TV

I think advertising on social
media isn’t as effective as
advertising on TV. Really? I think
advertising on social
media is more effective.

B Read the blog post. Where does the writer think modern travel companies should advertise? Why?
On social media, because it’s more effective than traditional forms of advertising.
TRAVEL ADVERTISING IN THE 21ST CENTURY
© National Geographic Learning
In the past, travel companies used to advertise destinations in newspapers and magazines, or on
TV. They used to put a photo of a beautiful beach on the page or show people having fun by the
pool on the screen. But nowadays, if you want tourists to come, social media is indispensable and
much more effective than traditional forms of advertising. Here are five tips to make your company
go viral.1

1. Keep posting
Give customers a reason to look up your travel company by being the local expert. Provide
free information about things to do, how to get around, and the best places to shop and eat.
If tourists find it useful, they will share your posts with friends.

176

WLTB_L2_RWL04_ptg01.indd 2 30/04/21 1:10 PM

──────── Page 333 ────────

C In pairs, read the blog post again and answer the
REAL WORLD LINK:
questions. 15 min
MAKE A TRAVEL AD,
Read through the six questions as a class and
Units 10–12
check that everyone understands the vocabulary.
For example, words and phrases like get in
WARM-UP 5 min
touch and influencers might need clarifying.
With books closed, write Advertisement on the
Then have students read the blog post again. As
board. Check that students know its meaning and
they read, encourage students to underline the
also explain that we often shorten it in everyday
key words that answer the questions. This will
English to ad. Then ask students to suggest
help them refer to relevant parts of the text when
different places they might see advertisements and
they compare their answers with their partner,
write their ideas on the board; for example, in a
and when they check answers as a class at
newspaper, on TV. When you have a few ideas, ask
the end.
students to open their books and compare their list
on the board with the seven places in A.
NOTES

PRONUNCIATION TIP: Advertisement

Note that the pronunciation of this word can vary. In
American English, the stress tends to be on the third
syllable: advertisement. However, students may
have also heard the pronunciation advertisement,
with the stress on the second syllable; this is more
common in other Englishes such as British English.
Also mention that the stress shifts to the first syllable
in the other forms: advertise / advertising.

A Where do you often see advertisements?
Compare the places for advertising and rank
them from 1 to 7 (1 = most effective, 7 = least
effective). Then discuss with a partner.
10–15 min

Have students start this exercise on their own.
They should rank the seven places in order
and think about the reasons for their answers.
Encourage them to consider which type of
advertisements they react to the most. Then,
either working in pairs or in small groups, have
students compare their ranking and explain their
answers. Ideally, they should try to reach a final
agreement and report their list back to the class.

B Read the blog post. Where does the writer think
modern travel companies should advertise?
Why? 10 min
To answer this question, students won’t need to
understand the whole text at this stage. They can
scan it for key words that provide the answer.
© National Geographic Learning
In fact, the main answer is given in the first
paragraph and then the remaining paragraphs
support the answer with examples of how people
advertise online and use social media.

Teacher’s Book UNITS 10–12 | 176a

WLTB_L2_RWL04_ptg01.indd 3 30/04/21 1:10 PM

──────── Page 334 ────────

D Work in groups and discuss how you could
F Work with another group. Watch their
advertise your city, town, or local region to
presentation or video advertisement, or look at
tourists. Follow the steps: 15 min
their social media post. Would you like to travel to
their destination? Why or why not? 20–30 min
If you think students might need clearer
guidance with this exercise, begin by writing on
When students have finished their projects from
the board:
E, the most practical way for them to share
their work is to work with another group and
• Types of tourist
look at, watch, or read each other’s project.
However, there are other options open to you.
• Sightseeing / things to do
If students chose Option 1, they could give
• Other reasons
their presentation to the whole class if you have
time. If they chose Option 2 and made a video
Then brainstorm all the different possible
advertisement, then it should be fairly easy to
answers you can give for each category without
show the video to the whole class. For Option 3,
being limited to one location. For example,
students could even share their photos and text
types of tourists could include teenagers, retired
on a class blog or website if that is available to
people, couples, families, language learners,
you. Alternatively, they could print the photos
beach lovers, etc. When you have a list of ideas
and text out and display them around the
for each of the three categories on the board,
classroom so everyone can read them.
put students into groups and ask them to narrow
their choices down so that they know the type of
In terms of assessing the work of their peers,
tourist they will advertise to, and what that type
students should be given time to say if they
of tourist will want to see and do.
would like to travel to the destination as a result
of seeing the advertisement. You could also write
E You Choose In your groups, choose one of the
these questions on the board to help groups
options to plan and make an advertisement about
think about and comment on each other’s work in
your travel destination from D. 20–30 min
more detail afterwards:
You could let groups choose an option or you
1. What type of tourist is their advertisement
might assign one of the options depending upon
aimed at?
the context you are working in. For example,
2. Which sightseeing place(s) and activities
Option 1 and Option 2 will need plenty of
would you like to see and do?
preparation time, either to source photos or
make the video, so the groups will probably
3. What do you think is the main reason for
need time at home to work on their project.
visiting this place?
Option 3 might take less time, as students could
4. What do you think was most effective about
take their photos and then write text to go with
the advertisement?
each photo.

TEACHING TIP: Project work
NOTES
The key word with extended tasks like those in E,
or what we can call “project work,” is flexibility.
Unlike other class exercises, it is much harder to
plan the timing of project work; sometimes students
will finish a task more quickly than you expected
or they will need much more time. Often, project
work involves students taking the work home, doing
some research, and preparing something before the
next class, when they will need to present what they
have created. When groups collaborate on projects,
students also need time and space to discuss
© National Geographic Learning
the project and to decide who will be in charge
of each aspect of the project. For this reason, it is
always wise to make sure each group has a leader
or manager who will run meetings and make sure
everyone in the group completes their assigned
tasks. This is also the student you can approach
when you want an update on how the project is
progressing.

177a | Teacher’s Book UNITS 10–12

WLTB_L2_RWL04_ptg01.indd 4 30/04/21 1:10 PM

──────── Page 335 ────────

UNITS 10–12
RATE YOUR EXPERIENCE!
2. The power of the image
On social media, everyone is addicted to images, so you have to use a high-quality camera to
Name of the business:
take beautiful photos of destinations for your posts. People also enjoy taking virtual tours, which
What it does:
allow them to “visit” a place through a series of photos or videos.
Date I went there:
3. Reviews are key
I decided to go to there because:
Include customer reviews in your advertising and invite people to write their own reviews.
If someone gives you a negative review, don’t ignore them! You must get in touch and show
1. In general, my experience was terrible / OK / good / excellent.
that you can solve their problem.
2. The customer service was terrible / OK / good / excellent.
4. Contests and prizes
3. The prices were expensive / reasonable / inexpensive.
Competitions are as popular as ever, and people love winning prizes! Post questions about a
4. I would / would not recommend this business to a friend.
destination to test people’s knowledge, or hold a travel photo contest. Offering a big prize to
5. I definitely will / probably won’t patronize this business again in the near future.
the winner, like a free flight or hotel room, will get a lot of people interested.

5. Influencers
Spend time following other people on social media who influence tourism and travel. “Like”
their posts and encourage them to like and follow you. You could even offer them a free trip
E Read or watch your partner’s review, and answer questions 1–3. At the end,
with your company so they can review and post about your services.
tell your partner your answers.
1If something goes viral (slang), it quickly becomes popular or well known on the internet.
1. What business did your partner review?
2. Was your partner’s review positive or negative? Why?
C In pairs, read the blog post again and answer the questions.
3. Do you agree or disagree with your partner? Why?
1. Where did travel companies use to advertise?
They used to advertise in newspapers, magazines, or on TV.
2. According to the article, what must travel companies give for free?
F Repeat E with different classmates. At the end, think about the reviews you read
They have to give free information on things to do, how to get around, and places to shop and eat.
or listened to. Complete the sentence and tell a partner.
3. What does the article say you have to use for taking photos?
You have to use a high-quality camera.
For me, all / most / some / one / none of the reviews were positive / negative.
4. When is it very important to get in touch with customers?
When they give you a negative review.
5. Why are competitions still a good way to advertise?
Because they are as popular as ever, and people love winning prizes, so it’s a good way to get people interested.
6. How can influencers help travel companies?
They can like and follow you, and then possibly write reviews and post about your services.

D Work in groups and discuss how you could advertise your city, town, or local region to tourists.
Follow the steps:

1. Describe the type of tourist who might come (for example, young, likes hiking).
2. Make a list of sightseeing places and things to do for the type of tourist from step 1.
3. Make a list of other reasons to stay in your city or town, such as hotels, local food, shopping, and
transportation.

E You Choose In your groups, choose one of the options to plan and make an advertisement about
© National Geographic Learning
your travel destination from D.

Option 1: Make a five-minute presentation with photos and information for tourists.

Option 2: Create a two-minute video advertisement for social media. Show interesting places and
record some narration.

Option 3: Take photos of the destination to post on social media. Then write some information
about the place(s) in the photos to go with the post.

F Work with another group. Watch their presentation or video advertisement, or look at their social
media post. Would you like to travel to their destination? Why or why not?

177

WLTB_L2_RWL04_ptg01.indd 5 30/04/21 1:10 PM

──────── Page 336 ────────

LANGUAGE SUMMARIES

UNIT 1: MY LIFE
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
be going out
fail
fail (v) succeed (v)
friends
failure (n) success (n)
good ~
classmate
get (good / bad) grades
successful (adj)
close ~
coworker / colleague
have
give up (quit) (v)
best ~
friend
~ free time, ~ fun
keep trying (v)
old ~
get along well
next-door neighbors meet
girlfriend / boyfriend
~ friends, classes ~
(not) know (someone)
pass
(very) well
prepare for exams
neighbor
take
spend time together
~ classes, ~ exams, ~ tests,
work together
~ (music / tennis) lessons

Speaking Strategy
Introducing a person to someone else    Responding to introductions
Mr. Otani, I’d like to introduce you to Andre.    It’s (very) nice to meet you.
Mr. Otani, I’d like you to meet Andre.    (It’s) nice / good to meet you, too.
Junko, this is Ricardo.    Nice / Good to meet you.
Junko, meet Ricardo.    You, too.
Junko, Ricardo.    Asking for someone’s name again
I’m sorry, I’m terrible with names.
I’m sorry, I’ve forgotten your name.

© National Geographic Learning

178 | Language Summaries

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 178 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 337 ────────

UNIT 2: LET’S EAT!
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
on the go
too + (adjective)    diet
awful
takeout
baked
(healthy / unhealthy) habits
cooked
health benefits
delicious
increase
fried
lifestyle
frozen
plenty
juicy dry
prevent
oily
reduce
salty
spicy mild
sweet sour
tasty
terrible
yummy

Speaking Strategy
Making suggestions    Responding to suggestions
Statements    Good / Great idea!
Let’s have Thai food.    (That) sounds good (to me).
Questions    (That’s) fine with me.
Why don’t we have Thai food?    I don’t really want to.
How about having Thai food?    I don’t really feel like it.
When rejecting a suggestion, it’s common to give an explanation: I don’t really feel like it. I’m too tired.

UNIT 3: MYSTERIES
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
affect
intuition    data
(bring) good luck
behavior
on the other hand    do research
(avoid) bad luck
pesticide
increase (your)
explanation
artifact
chances
figure out
excavate
(more / less) likely
investigate
site
(to) unlikely (to)
make sense
wonder
lucky unlucky
proof
on purpose by
have ~, need ~,
chance
there’s (no) ~
take a chance
solve
(have a) theory
© National Geographic Learning
Speaking Strategy
Saying something is likely    Saying something is not likely
I bet (that) Marco plays the drums.    I doubt (that) Marco plays the drums.
Marco probably plays the drums.
Maybe / Perhaps Marco plays the drums.
You can use Are you sure? to ask if a person is certain about something.

Language Summaries | 179

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 179 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 338 ────────

UNIT 4: TRENDS
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
accessory
billion
about /
be in style
get dressed up
million
approximately
brand
thousand
almost / nearly
casual
1.46 million = one
exactly
expensive inexpensive
point four six million
influencer
increase
a couple of
decrease
(someone) looks good /
groceries
trend
great / terrible in (clothing)
(clothing) looks good / great /
a lot (more / less)
terrible on (someone)
much (more / less)
style (n)
stylish (adj)
(not) suit (someone)
unique

Speaking Strategy
Polite disagreement    More direct disagreement
I know what you’re saying, but . . .    I’m afraid I disagree.
I see / know what you mean, but . . .    Sorry, but I disagree.
I’m not sure about that.    I totally / completely disagree.
That’s not a bad idea, but . . .
You can use more direct expressions with people you know well (friends, family, etc.).

UNIT 5: MY NEIGHBORHOOD
LESSON A LESSON B
by
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
~ bike (ride my) bike
do laundry
do household    bike lanes
~ bus / subway take the bus / subway
chores    cyclists
do the dishes
~ car drive
run errands    get around
drop off
~ taxi take a taxi
go grocery
get to
~ train take / catch a train
shopping
on foot
walk
make a reservation
pedestrians
make a(n) (doctor’s)
sidewalks
bohemian
magical
appointment
traffic
make dinner
walkable
pick up
sweep
vacuum

Speaking Strategy
© National Geographic Learning
Making appointments
I’m calling to / I’d like to . . . make an appointment with a counselor / Dr. Smith / the dentist.
I’m calling to / I’d like to . . . make a doctor’s / hair appointment.
I’m calling to / I’d like to . . . reschedule my appointment / our meeting.
Scheduling the time
Can you come in / Could we meet / How’s tomorrow at 2:00?
That’s perfect. / That works for me.
No, that (time / day) doesn’t work for me.

180 | Language Summaries

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 180 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 339 ────────

UNIT 6: GOALS
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
after graduation
apply (to) (v) / application (n)
environmental at some point
in a month
mission    be my own boss
arrange (v) /
next year
arrangement (n)
create a resume
this summer
choose (v) / choice (n)
do an internship
consider (doing) (v) /
eventually
paid position
consideration (n)
go back to school
terms
decide (to do) (v) / decision (n)
in a few days / weeks
achieve your dreams
intend (to do) (v) / intention (n)
in the near future
face challenges
plan (to do) (v) / plan (n)
opportunity
financial support
recommend (doing
someday
overcome
something) (v) /
soon
recommendation (n)
take time off

Speaking Strategy
Responding to bad news    Offering to help
(I’m) sorry to hear that.    If you want to talk, (just) call me.
That’s too bad.    If there’s anything I can do, (just) let me know.
How disappointing.
You must be disappointed.

UNIT 7: CELEBRATIONS
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
charm
celebrate
fans    compete (v)
shrine
inspiration    competition (n) /
decorate
wish /
live    competitor (n)
get together
make a wish
guests
gather
have a good time
participate (v)
invite
participation (n) / participant (n)
occasion
perform (v)
performance (n) / performer (n)
a party
prize
attend / go to ~
race
have ~ , host ~,
take place
organize ~, plan ~,
tradition
throw ~

Speaking Strategy
Refusing an invitation
Inviting someone to do something
I’m sorry, but I can’t. I have plans.
Do you want to go with me?
Unfortunately, I can’t. I have to work.
Would you like to go with me?
© National Geographic LearningI’d love to, but I’m busy (then / that day).
How’d you like to go with me?

Accepting an invitation
Sure, I’d love to.
That sounds great.
When refusing an invitation, it’s polite to give a simple explanation.

Language Summaries | 181

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 181 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 340 ────────

UNIT 8: ONCE UPON A TIME
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
myth
based on contribute
ancient
ram
best-selling
brave
violent
(main) character
clever
director
discover
diversity
easy to follow hard to follow
evil
impactful (adj) /
fiction
incredible
impactfully (adv)
predictable unpredictable
magic
realistic unrealistic
succeed
take place
traditional
The story is about . . . / It tells
the story of . . .

Speaking Strategy
Showing interest and finding out what
Telling a story
happened
I just heard an amazing / interesting / unbelievable story.
What’s it about?
It’s a story about . . .
Oh, no! / Really?
One day . . .
So what did he / she do?
Later, . . . / After that, . . .
What happened next?
As it turns out, . . .
Are you serious? / Wow!
In the end, . . .

UNIT 9: WORK
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
adventurous
demanding
cautious
exhausting
courageous
glamorous
efficient
hazardous
flexible
rewarding
independently
well paid
knowledgeable
personable
punctual
responsible

Speaking Strategy
Are you (punctual)?
Interviewing for a job
Yes, I am. For example, . . .
Starting the interview
Do you have any experience (writing a blog)?
Thanks for coming in today.
Yes, I write one for my school newspaper now.
It’s great to be here. / My pleasure.
© National Geographic Learning
Ending the interview
Discussing abilities and experience
Do you have any questions?
Tell me a little about yourself.
Yes, I do. / No, I don’t think so.
I’m a student at . . .
When can you start?
I’m majoring in . . .
Right away. / On Monday. / Next week.
Can you (work independently)?
I’ll be in touch.
Yes, I can. For example, . . .
I look forward to hearing from you.

182 | Language Summaries

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 182 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 341 ────────

UNIT 10: STAY IN TOUCH
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
at the last minute
can’t get a / don’t have a signal
(be) addicted to
get in touch / stay in touch (or contact)
(something)
go to / attend a meeting
ban allow
on silent / on mute
be distracted by
spend time / pass (the) time
pay attention to
device
call
get
polite rude
~ someone
~ a call
post delete
make a ~
~ a message
respond ignore
return a ~
~ a text
turn up turn down
check
~ your email
~ your messages
~ your phone

Speaking Strategy
Asking someone to wait
Using the phone
Hang on. / Can you hang on (for a moment /
Asking for someone and responding
second)?
Hi, Lisa? / Hi. Is Lisa there? / Can I speak to Lisa,
Would / Could you hold (for a moment /
please?
second)? [formal]
Hello. May / Could I speak to Lisa, please? [formal]
This is Lisa. / Speaking.
Taking a message
Can I take a message?
Asking for identification of caller
May I take a message?
Who’s calling?
Would you like to leave a message? [formal]
May I ask who’s calling? [formal]

UNIT 11: TECHNOLOGY
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
advanced
a fad    charge
calm
a flash in the pan go off
dementia
affordable
indispensable    load
customizable
interact with
durable
log in
fashionable
look up
practical
plug in
rechargeable
run out
reliable
scroll down
user-friendly
stand up
wearable
switch on
© National Geographic Learning
Speaking Strategy
Offering a counterargument    Explaining what you think
Stating what other people think    (But,) actually, she’s very outgoing.
A lot of people say (that) she’s shy.    (But,) in fact, / in reality, she’s very outgoing.
Some people think (that) she’s shy.    (But,) the truth / fact / reality is she’s very outgoing.

Language Summaries | 183

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 183 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 342 ────────

UNIT 12: TRAVEL
LESSON A LESSON B
Vocabulary
Vocabulary
journey    boarding
go with the flow
apply for a visa
travel    bus stop
perspective
book tickets
trip    canceled
rerouted
check in online
download a weather app
catch miss (a bus / train)
delayed
exchange some money
depart arrive
get travel insurance
gate
lock the front door
itinerary
pack a travel adapter
on time
valid
schedule
water the plants
take off land
terminal

Speaking Strategy
Saying you’ve forgotten something
I forgot + noun: I forgot my bus pass.
I forgot + infinitive: I forgot to empty the trash.
I don’t remember + gerund: I don’t remember turning off the lights.
I can’t remember where + clause: I can’t remember where I put my car keys.

© National Geographic Learning

184 | Language Summaries

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 184 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 343 ────────

GRAMMAR REFERENCE

1 MY LIFE
LESSON A

THE SIMPLE PRESENT VS. THE PRESENT CONTINUOUS

Simple present Present continuous

Use the simple present to talk about habits,    Use the present continuous to talk about actions
schedules, and facts.    that are happening right now. Also, use the present
continuous to talk about actions happening in the
extended present (nowadays). Notice the time
expressions.

I always take a shower in the morning.    She’s taking a shower. Can she call you back?
The express train arrives at 9:03 am.    Hurry up! The train is leaving!
They don’t speak Italian. They speak French.    How many classes are you taking this term?
She is working at a cafe these days.

Sometimes, the simple present and the present continuous have similar meanings, but use of the
present continuous can show a situation is more temporary.

I live in Tokyo.    At the moment, I’m living in Tokyo.

A: Every summer, my family goes to the beach. A: Let’s have lunch at my hotel.
B: Nice! Do you stay in a hotel?    B: Sounds good. Where are you staying?

With the simple present, we often use adverbs of frequency, such as always, sometimes, and never.
With the present continuous, we often use time expressions such as at the moment, right now, and
currently.

A Veronique Lesarg is a doctor. Use the simple present or present continuous to complete her profile.
is live
My name (1. be) Veronique Lesarg. I (2. live) in
am
Montreal. I (3. be) a pediatrician, a doctor for children. I usually
work
am volunteering / ’m
(4. work) in a hospital, but these days, I (5. volunteer)
volunteering
send
for an organization called Doctors Without Borders. They (6. send) staff to
am working / ’m
other countries. This year, I (7. work) in Ethiopia. At the moment,
working
am writing / ’m
I (8. write) to you from a small village. There’s no hospital here, so right now
writing
are building / ’re
we (9. build) one.
building

© National Geographic Learning
B Write two simple present and two present continuous questions about Veronique Lesarg. Then
answer them in your notebook.

1. 3.

2. 4.

Grammar Reference | 185

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 185 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 344 ────────

LESSON B

REVIEW OF THE SIMPLE PAST

Subject Verb Time expression
I    missed    The simple past ending
You    didn’t miss    yesterday.    for regular verbs is -ed.
He / She    a tennis lesson    two days / weeks ago.    For irregular verbs, see
We    had    last week / month.    the list below.
They    didn’t have

Yes / No questions Answers

With be Were you in class today? Yes, I was. / No, I wasn’t.

With other verbs Did you pass the test? Yes, I did. / No, I didn’t.

Wh- questions Answers

With be Where were you last night? (I was) at my friend’s house.

With other verbs When did you meet your girlfriend? (We met) last year.

REGULAR SIMPLE PAST VERBS IRREGULAR SIMPLE PAST VERBS

Base    Simple    Base    Simple    Base    Simple    Base    Simple
form    past    form    past    form    past    form    past
change
changed
pass
passed
be
was / were
know
knew
die
died
play
played
come
came
make
made
enter
entered
practice
practiced
do
did
meet
met
finish
finished
prepare
prepared
eat
ate
read
read
graduate
graduated
study
studied
get
got
run
ran
help
helped
talk
talked
give
gave
take
took
live
lived
travel
traveled
go
went
think
thought
marry
married
use
used
have
had
win
won
move
moved
work
worked
keep
kept
write
wrote

A Read about Diego’s experience. Complete the sentences with the correct simple past form
of the verbs in parentheses.
studied
In high school, I (1. study) a lot and got good grades. But the first time
took failed
I (2. take) the university entrance exam, I (3. fail) . That
was went
(4. be) hard. To prepare for the next exam, I (5. go) to a test prep
happened    met
center. Two good things (6. happen) after I went there: I (7. meet)
took
my girlfriend in the class, and the next time I (8. take) the entrance exam,
© National Geographic Learningpassed
I (9. pass) it!

B Write simple past questions about Diego. Then answer them in your notebook.

1. Was Diego a good student in high school?    4.

2. 5.

3. 6.

186 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 186 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 345 ────────

C Write sentences about things you did or didn’t do yesterday. Use the verb phrases provided.
1. go to school    I didn’t go to school yesterday. I was sick.
2. study for a test
3. do homework
Did you go to
4. practice English
school yesterday?
No, I didn’t.
D Ask a partner Yes / No questions to learn his or her answers from C.
Why not? What
Then ask a follow-up Wh- question.
did you do?
I stayed home.
I was sick.

2 LET’S EAT!
LESSON A

THE COMPARATIVE FORM OF ADJECTIVES

This restaurant is bigger than that one.    Use the comparative form of an adjective to
compare two things.

Your cooking is better than my mom’s.    The comparative of good is better. The
My cold is worse today than it was yesterday.    comparative of bad is worse.

I’m tall, but Milo is taller.    Sometimes, you can use the comparative form
without than.

sweet ➔ sweeter Add -er to many one-syllable adjectives.

large ➔ larger Add -r if the adjective ends in -e.
One syllable
Double the final consonant and add -er if the
big ➔ bigger
adjective ends in consonant + vowel + consonant.

simple ➔ simpler    Add -r or -er to some two-syllable adjectives.
quiet ➔ quieter

Change the final -y to -ier if the adjective ends
Two syllables spicy ➔ spicier
in -y.

crowded ➔ more crowded    Add more to other two-syllable adjectives,
famous ➔ more famous    especially those ending in -ing, -ed, -ous, or -ful.

relaxing ➔ more relaxing    Add more to all adjectives with three or more
Three or more
comfortable ➔ more    syllables.
syllables
comfortable

A Write the comparative form of the adjectives.
© National Geographic Learningmilder    thinner
1. mild 6. thin
tastier    better
2. tasty 7. good
more popular    more important
3. popular 8. important
hungrier    nicer
4. hungry 9. nice
worse    more expensive
5. bad 10. expensive

Grammar Reference | 187

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 187 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 346 ────────

B Read the statements. Then make a sentence using the
i Use than after the comparative
when the two things being compared
comparative form of the adjective in parentheses followed by than.
are mentioned in the same sentence:
A can of soda has 44 grams of sugar.
The popcorn is saltier than the pretzels.

A glass of iced tea has 0 grams of sugar.
A can of soda is sweeter than a glass of iced tea.
1. (sweet)

Some people like baked chicken.

Everyone loves grilled chicken.
Grilled chicken is more popular than baked chicken.
2. (popular)

Korean dishes are very spicy.
English dishes are not so spicy.
Korean dishes are spicier than English dishes.
3. (spicy)

The streets in the village are empty.

There are a lot of cars on the streets in the city.
The streets in the city are busier than the streets in the village.
4. (busy)

It costs $30 to eat at the French restaurant.

It costs $10 to eat at the coffee shop.
The French restaurant is more expensive than the coffee shop.
5. (expensive)

LESSON B

THE SUPERLATIVE FORM OF ADJECTIVES

It’s the oldest restaurant in Paris.    Use the superlative form of an adjective to
(The other restaurants are not as old.)    compare something to an entire group.

It’s one of the oldest restaurants in Paris.    Use one of . . . to show that something or
(It’s one of many old restaurants in Paris.)    someone is part of a group.

Mario’s has the best pizza in the city.    The superlative of good is the best. The
It was the worst movie of the year.    superlative of bad is the worst.

sweet ➔ the sweetest    Add the and -est or -st to many one-syllable
large ➔ the largest    adjectives.
One syllable    Double the final consonant and add -est if
big ➔ the biggest    the adjective ends in consonant + vowel +
consonant.

quiet ➔ the quietest    Add the and -est or -st to some two-syllable
simple ➔ the simplest    adjectives.
© National Geographic Learning
Add the and change the final -y to -iest if the
Two syllables spicy ➔ the spiciest
adjective ends in -y.

crowded ➔ the most crowded    Add the most to other two-syllable adjectives,
famous ➔ the most famous    especially those ending in -ing, -ed, -ous, or -ful.

Three or more relaxing ➔ the most relaxing    Add the most to all adjectives with three or
syllables    comfortable ➔ the most comfortable more syllables.

188 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 188 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 347 ────────

A Write the superlative form of the adjectives.
the cheapest
the most unusual
1. cheap 6. unusual
the best
the healthiest
2. healthy 7. good
the most nervous
the most helpful
3. nervous 8. helpful
the tastiest
the friendliest
4. friendly 9. tasty
the worst
the most expensive
5. bad 10. expensive

B Make questions with the words below and the superlative form of the adjectives.
Who is the healthiest person in your class?
1. Who / the / healthy / person in your class?

Who is the best cook in your family?
2. Who is / good / cook in your family?

Who is the most popular celebrity on TV?
3. Who / popular / celebrity on TV?

What is the worst tasting food or drink?
4. What / bad / tasting food or drink?

What is the most famous building in your city?
5. What / famous / building in your city?

Where is the coolest cafe to meet friends?
6. Where / cool / cafe to meet friends?

C Take turns asking and answering the questions in B with a partner.

3 MYSTERIES
LESSON A

STATIVE VERBS

Thinking verbs Having verbs Feeling verbs Sensing verbs Other verbs
appear    belong    dislike    feel    agree
believe    have    hate    hear    mean
doubt    own    like    look    need
know    love    see    seem
remember    mind    taste    want
think    prefer
Stative verbs describe states, thoughts, and feelings, not actions. We normally use these verbs in the
simple present, not the present continuous.
He seems like a nice guy. He is seeming like a nice guy.

Some stative verbs, however, can be used in the present continuous. When used this way, their
meaning changes.
Do you think he’s lucky? (think = believe)    I’m thinking about it. (think = consider)
© National Geographic Learning
He looks happy. (look = appear)    Who is looking in the window? (look = direct
eyes toward)
She has a lucky object. (have = own; possess)    Are you having a good time? (have = experience)
I see a big dog over there. (see = view)    Sorry, I can’t make it. I’m seeing a friend
I see what you mean. (see = understand)    tomorrow. (see = meet)
When you ask about how someone feels, you can use either form with no change in meaning.
How do you feel?
How are you feeling?

Grammar Reference | 189

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 189 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 348 ────────

A Circle the correct word(s) to complete each sentence. In one item, both answers are possible.
1. I bet that lucky people have / are having more friends.
2. Do you think / Are you thinking some people are just luckier in life?
3. Lucky charms seem / are seeming to really work.
4. Do you know / Are you knowing the answer to question four?
5. I doubt / I’m doubting it’s a fact.
6. I hear / I’m hearing that Professor Wiseman is a well-known psychologist.
7. It looks / is looking like Amy called me at 2:00.
8. A: Do you belong / Are you belonging to the International Student Club?
B: No, but I think / I’m thinking of joining.

9. A: How do you feel? / How are you feeling?
B: Not great. I have / I’m having a cold.

10. I see / I’m seeing the doctor soon. Can I call you back later?

LESSON B

MODALS OF PRESENT POSSIBILITY

Subject Modal Main verb

Bigfoot may / might / could live in North America.
The Loch Ness    real. There are no sea
can’t be
Monster monsters.
You can use may, might, or could to say something is possible in the simple present.
Use can’t to say something is impossible.
You can use may or might with not: He might not / may not speak French.
Do not use could with not for present possibility.

Questions and short answers

It may / might / could be.
With be Is the Loch Ness Monster real?
No, it can’t be.
With other    Does Bigfoot live in North    It may / might / could.
verbs    America?    No, it can’t.

A Complete the conversations with a modal, and a verb if needed.
1. A: How old is Karen?
may / might / could be
B: I don’t know. She 35.
© National Geographic Learningcan’t be
C: She 35. She graduated from high school in 1994.
2. A: Do ghosts exist?
may / might / could
B: They . No one knows for sure.
3. A: Where’s Lauren?
may / might / could be
B: I’m not sure. She with Lin. They always hang out together after school.
can’t be
A: She with Lin. Lin is on vacation this week.
4. A: Are the Nazca Lines a type of calendar?
may / might / could be
B: They . It’s one possible explanation.

190 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 190 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 349 ────────

B In your notebook, write a sentence about each mysterious image using different modals of present
possibility. Then compare your ideas with a partner.

1. Bigfoot 2. The Loch Ness Monster 3. Aliens

C Match the questions to the answers.
f
1. Is the Loch Ness Monster real?    a. She may be.
b
2. Do aliens live on the moon?    b. They may.
e
3. Does Rose live near here?    c. They might be.
c
4. Are these footprints from a giant human?    d. It might.
d
5. Does Bigfoot live in North America?    e. She might.
a
6. Is your mother at home?    f. It could be.

4 TRENDS
LESSON A

QUANTITY EXPRESSIONS WITH SPECIFIC NOUNS
100% all
Quantity of Noun phrase Verb
most
All
a lot
Most
half
A lot    my friends
some
of like online shopping.
Half    them
0%    none
Some
None
We can use these quantity expressions to talk about amounts with specific nouns.
Most of the students are from Japan.
A lot of them are from Tokyo.
Half of my homework is finished.
Some of the building is under construction.
The word of is optional after all when it is followed by a specific noun phrase,
© National Geographic Learning
but of must be used with a pronoun (it, them, you, etc.).
All (of) my friends live at home. All of them live at home. All them live at home.

Grammar Reference | 191

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 191 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 350 ────────

QUANTITY EXPRESSIONS WITH GENERAL NOUNS

Quantity Plural count noun

All
Most
students study hard.
A lot of
Some

Use all, most, a lot of, and some followed by a plural noun to make more
general statements.
These days, most stores have websites.
Some people hate online shopping.
These expressions can also be used with noncount nouns.
A lot of traffic comes from road accidents.

A Circle the correct word(s) to complete each sentence. In one item, both answers are possible.
1. Some / Some of people want to be happy in life.
2. Most / Most of my friends speak English, but none / none of them speak it at home.
3. Some / Some of students live with their families because it’s cheaper.
4. Half / Half of our neighbors have children, but none / none of them have pets.
5. All / All of parents want their children to do well in school.
6. All / All of the instructors at my school are really strict.

B Do you agree with the sentences in A? If not, rewrite them by changing the quantity.

LESSON B

ADVICE WITH COULD, SHOULD, OUGHT TO, AND HAD BETTER

You    could    it online (or at a store).
He    should / ought to it online. It’s cheaper.
She    shouldn’t buy    it at a store. It’s more expensive.
We    ’d better it now. Tomorrow, the price increases.
They    ’d better not it now. It’s too expensive.
Use could, should / shouldn’t, ought to, and had better (not) to make suggestions and give advice in
the present or near future.
These words come before the base form of a verb and are the same for all persons.
Use could to make a suggestion. It is often used to offer two or more choices.
Use should or ought to to give advice. Both are stronger than could.
In the negative, use shouldn’t (should not).
Use had better (not) to give strong advice. It sounds like a warning or an order.
In speaking, use the contracted form (You’d better . . . / We’d better not . . .).

© National Geographic Learning
A Complete the conversations with the expressions in the boxes. Use each expression only once.
could ought to shouldn’t

A: I don’t know what to wear to the party tonight.
B: You (1.) could    wear black pants or your new skinny jeans.
A: It’s a formal dinner party.
B: Oh, then you (2.) shouldn’t    wear jeans. They’re too casual. You definitely
(3.) ought to    wear the black pants.

192 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 192 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 351 ────────

could ’d better ’d better not

A: I still don’t understand this grammar.
’d better
B: You (4.) get some help. The test is on Thursday.
could
C: Maybe you (5.) take the test on Friday. That would give you extra time.
’d better not
B: Either way, you (6.) wait to talk to the teacher. There’s not much time!

5 MY NEIGHBORHOOD
LESSON A

REQUESTS WITH MODAL VERBS AND MIND

Making requests Responding to requests
Sure, no problem. / I’d be glad to. /
Informal Can / Will you
help    Of course. / Sure thing.
Could / Would you
me, please? Sorry, / I’d like to, but I can’t.
No, not at all. / No, I’d be glad to.
Formal Would you mind helping
Sorry, / I’d like to, but I can’t.
Use Can you, Will you, Could you, or Would you + verb to make requests.

To make a more formal request, use Would you mind + verb + -ing. Note: When responding to a Would you
mind . . . request, you should say, No, not at all. or No, I’d be glad to. if you can do what the person asked.

To make a request more polite, add please.

A You need help preparing for a birthday party. Read each sentence. Then use the words in
Sample answers below.
parentheses to write a request.

1. There are a lot of dirty dishes in the sink. (could / do)
Could you do the dishes, please?

2. You need something at the grocery store. (would / mind / go)
Would you mind going grocery shopping / to the grocery store?

3. The rugs are dirty. (can / vacuum)
Can you please vacuum the rugs?

4. You don’t have enough snacks. (would / make)
Would you make some snacks, please?

5. You need some flowers. (will / buy)
© National Geographic LearningWill you please buy some flowers?
6. Someone needs to watch the soup on the stove. (would / mind / watch)
Would you mind watching the soup on the stove?

Grammar Reference | 193

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 193 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 352 ────────

7. The birthday cake is still at the pastry shop. (could / pick up)
Could you pick up the birthday cake, please?

8. You need to blow up the birthday balloons. (would / mind / blow up)
Would you mind blowing up the birthday balloons?

B In your notebook, write a different response to each request.

LESSON B

SUBJECT RELATIVE CLAUSES WITH THAT

El Alto is a city    is next to La Paz.
Hongdae is a neighborhood that    has a lot of stores and restaurants.
Telecommuters are people work from home using a computer.
Relative clauses follow nouns. They describe or define the noun.
La Paz is a city that is nearly 12,000 feet (3,650 m) above sea level.

Relative clauses with that can describe or define an object (something) or a person (someone).
Jane is the woman that lives next door to me.

When that is followed by a verb, we call it a subject relative clause.
El Alto is a city. It is next to La Paz. El Alto is a city that is next to La Paz.

The verb in the clause agrees with the noun it describes / defines.
A telecommuter is a person that works from home.
Telecommuters are people that work from home.

A Match the two halves of the sentences.
c
1. I live in a small town
a. that’s in the middle of New York City.
a
2. Central Park is a relaxing place
b. that carries people in the air.
d
3. Pedestrians are people
c. that is very quiet and has a lot of parks.
e
4. Bike lanes are parts of the street
d. that walk on the sidewalk.
b
5. A cable car is a type of transportation
e. that only cyclists can use.

B Join the two sentences with a subject relative clause.
1. Melbourne is a very walkable city. It’s in Australia.
Melbourne is a very walkable city that is in Australia.

2. Soho is a neighborhood in New York. It’s trendy and fashionable.
Soho is a neighborhood in New York that is trendy and fashionable.

3. Selma Hayek is a Mexican actress. She works in Hollywood.
Selma Hayek is a Mexican actress that works in Hollywood.© National Geographic Learning
4. Tokyo has a subway system. It’s one of the busiest in the world.
Tokyo has a subway system that is one of the busiest in the world.

5. Fernando Botero is a Colombian artist. He’s from the city of Medellin.
Fernando Botero is a Colombian artist that is from the city of Medellin.

6. In Europe, there are a lot of very old cities. They have many interesting places to visit.
In Europe, there are a lot of very old cities that have many interesting places to visit.

194 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 194 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 353 ────────

6 GOALS
LESSON A

PLANS AND DECISIONS WITH BE GOING TO AND WILL
Contractions (is / are)
you’re not = you aren’t
I’m going to study science in college.
Plans
she’s not = she isn’t
I’m not going to apply to school next year.
A: Oh, no, I forgot my wallet!
Contractions (will)
B: Don’t worry! I’ll pay for lunch.
I’ll / you’ll / he’ll / she’ll /
Decisions
A: We’re having a surprise party for Mark.
we’ll / they’ll
B: OK, I won’t say anything to him!
will not = won’t
We often use be going to to talk about future plans.
I’m going to attend Harvard University in the fall.

We often use will to talk about decisions we make at the moment of speaking.
A: I’m going for a walk. B: I’ll come with you.
Question forms with be going to
Are you going to    Yes, I am. / Maybe.
Yes / No questions
study science?    No, I’m not.
What are you going to I’m going to take a gap
Wh- questions
do after graduation?    year.

A Complete the statements and questions with the correct form of be going to. Some items
have more than one answer.
I’m not going to
1. (I / not) learn English in another country.
Are you going to
2. (you) join a club on campus?
I’m going to
3. (I) apply to college soon.
We’re not going to / We aren’t going to
4. (we / not) study for the test.
Is she going to
5. (she) travel next year?
We’re going to
6. (we) live in a dorm room.
He’s not going to / He isn’t going to
7. (he / not) attend a private school.
Are you going to
8. (you) finish your homework?

B Complete the sentences with the correct form of be going to or will.
’m going to
1. I attend college in the fall. I want to major in biology.
’ll
2. I’m bored and don’t know what to do. Wait, I know . . . I call my friend.
3. A: What would you like today?
’ll
B: Let’s see . . . I have the chicken and rice, please.
© National Geographic Learning’m going to
4. I bought my ticket last month. I visit Paris from July 1 to July 14.
5. A: This box is too heavy!
’ll
B: Wait! I help you.
’m going to
6. I apply to three schools.

Grammar Reference | 195

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 195 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 354 ────────

LESSON B

PREDICTIONS WITH BE GOING TO AND WILL

She’s going to / will be very successful.    You can use be going to and will to make
Some students aren’t going to / won’t pass the exam. predictions (guesses) about the future.

He’ll definitely / probably study business in college. You can use definitely, probably, or maybe to say
how certain you are about a prediction. Notice the
Maybe he’ll study business in college.
placement of these words in the sentences with will
He definitely / probably won’t study history.    and be going to.

She’s definitely / probably going to attend college    Definitely: You are 100% certain of something.

in the fall.    Probably: You are fairly certain of something.

Maybe she’s going to be a teacher after graduation. Maybe: You think something is possible.
She definitely / probably isn’t going to go to college. /
She’s definitely / probably not going to go to college.

A: Is she going to go to graduate school?    You can ask a Yes / No prediction question with
B: Maybe. I’m not sure.    be going to or will. It’s common to answer these
questions with only definitely, probably, or maybe.
A: Will she go to graduate school?
To express the negative, add not after definitely,
B: Probably not. I think she wants to get a job.
probably, or maybe.

A Answer each question with the words in parentheses and be going to or will. Each item has more
than one possible answer.

1. A: What are Mario’s plans for next year?
Maybe he’ll go back to school / Maybe he’s
B: I’m not sure. (he / go back to school / maybe) .
going to go back to school
2. A: Are Clara and Tony going to get married?
they’ll definitely get married someday / they’re
B: Yeah, (they / get married / definitely / someday) .
definitely going to get married someday
3. A: Is Rob going to go to the school party tonight?
He probably won’t go / He probably isn’t
B: (not / go / probably / he) . He’s sick.
going to go
4. A: Jun applied to Seoul National University. It’s hard to get accepted there.
he’ll definitely get accepted / he’s definitely
B: I know, but (get accepted / definitely / he) . He’s smart.
going to get accepted
5. A: Where’s the bus? It’s late.
It probably won’t be / It probably isn’t going
B: (probably / not / be / it) here for a while. Traffic is bad.
to be
6. A: Is it going to rain today?
it’ll probably rain / it’s probably going to rain
B: Yeah, (rain / it / probably) tomorrow, too.

B Read the text about a college student and think of questions to ask about her future. Write the
questions below. Then take turns asking and answering your questions with a partner.

© National Geographic Learning
Naomi is a very good student at a top university. She wants to be a doctor someday. Last summer,
she did an internship at a hospital in Sydney, Australia. She loved it there. In Sydney, she dated
a guy named Alex, but after she returned home, they broke up. Recently, she applied to Stanford
Medical School in the US. She hopes she will be accepted.

1. Education: Will Naomi be accepted into Stanford Medical School?
2. Job:    Will Naomi be accepted into
Stanford Medical School?
3. Finances (money):
4. Love life:    Yeah, probably. She’s
a very good student.
5. Travel experience:
196 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 196 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 355 ────────

7 CELEBRATIONS
LESSON A

AGREEING WITH OTHER PEOPLE’S STATEMENTS: SO, TOO, NEITHER, AND EITHER

Statements So / Neither be / do Subject
am I.
With be: I’m going to Emi’s party. So    is he / she.
Affirmative    are we / you / they.
do I / we / you / they.
With other verbs: I have a costume. So
does he / she.
am I.
With be: I’m not going to Emi’s party. Neither    is he / she.
Negative    are we / you / they.
do I / we / you / they.
With other verbs: I don’t have a costume. Neither
does he / she.
Responses like So am I or Neither do we can be used to agree with other people’s statements.
Use so in your response when agreeing with an affirmative statement. Use neither when agreeing
with a negative one.
These responses are most common in the first person singular (So do I) and the first person plural
(So are we). When used with other subjects (he, she, you, they), these responses are used to show a
similarity.
I like parties, and so does Ali. (Both the speaker and Ali like parties.)
The verb form in the response should match the verb form used in the statement.
A: I bought my costume for the party. B: So did I.
In casual conversation, you can use Me, too (with affirmative statements) or Me neither (with negative
statements). They can be used as responses to statements with be as well as other verbs.
A: I’m going to Emi’s party. I have my costume ready. B: Me, too.
A: I don’t have my costume, but I’m not worried about it. B: Me neither.

© National Geographic Learning

Grammar Reference | 197

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 197 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 356 ────────

Statements Subject be / do too / either
I am,
With be: I’m going to Emi’s party.    He / She is,    too.
Affirmative    We / You / They are,
I / We / You / They do,
With other verbs: I have a costume. too.
He / She does,
I ’m not
With be: I’m not going to Emi’s party.    He / She ’s not    either.
Negative    We / You / They ’re not
I / We / You / They don’t
With other verbs: I don’t have a costume. either.
He / She doesn’t
Like the expressions with so and neither, you can use responses with too and not . . . either to
agree with other people’s statements. Use too in your response when agreeing with an affirmative
statement. Use not . . . either when agreeing with a negative one.
These responses are most common in the first person singular (I am, too) and first person plural (We
do, too). With other subjects (he, she, you, they), these responses are used to show a similarity.
I like parties, and Ali does, too. (Both the speaker and Ali like parties.)
The verb form in the response should match the verb form used in the statement.
A: I bought my costume for the party. B: I did, too.

A Agree with each statement in at least two ways.
1. I like to host parties.
So do I. / I do, too.

2. I’m never late to class.
Neither am I. / I’m not either.

3. I don’t speak Italian.
Neither do I. / I don’t either.

4. I’m planning to study abroad next year.
So am I. / I am, too.

5. I did well on the exam.
So did I. / I did, too.

B Combine the sentences using the words in parentheses.
1. I’m having a good time. They’re having a good time. (so)
I’m having a good time, and so are they.

2. I throw a lot of parties. She throws a lot of parties. (so)
I throw a lot of parties, and so does she.© National Geographic Learning
3. I don’t watch the Super Bowl. He doesn’t watch the Super Bowl. (either)
I don’t watch the Super Bowl, and he doesn’t either.

4. I’m inviting a lot of friends. They’re inviting a lot of friends. (too)
I’m inviting a lot of friends, and they are, too.

5. You don’t celebrate the lunar New Year. We don’t celebrate the lunar New Year. (neither)
You don’t celebrate the lunar New Year, and neither do we.

198 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 198 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 357 ────────

LESSON B

TIME CLAUSES WITH BEFORE, AFTER, WHEN

Time clause Main clause
➊ Before the festival starts, Violetta speaks.
➋ After the party ended, we went home.
➌ When you throw powder in the air, you say, “Holi Hai!”
Main clause Time clause
➊ Violetta speaks before the festival starts.
➋ We went home after the party ended.
➌ You say, “Holi Hai!” when you throw powder in the air.
A time clause can show the order of two or more events.
In ➊: Violetta speaks. Then the festival starts.
In ➋: The party ended. Then we went home.
In ➌: The two events (You say, “Holi Hai!” You throw powder in the air.) happen at almost
the same time, or one happens immediately after the other.
When the time clause comes first, put a comma before the main clause.

A Combine the two sentences into one sentence using after, before, or when. Use commas if
necessary. Each item has more than one possible answer.

1. I brush my teeth. I eat breakfast.
I brush my teeth after I eat breakfast. / After I eat breakfast, I brush my teeth. / I eat breakfast after I
brush my teeth. / After I brush my teeth, I eat breakfast.
2. My friends and I get together. We have a good time.
When my friends and I get together, we have a good time. / My friends and I have a good time when we
get together.
3. I get a present. I send a thank-you message.
After I get a present, I send a thank-you message. /
I send a thank-you message after I get a present. / When I get a present, I send a thank-you message. /
I send a thank-you message when I get a present.
4. Guests come to our house. We clean up.
Before guests come to our house, we clean up. / We clean up before guests come to our house. / We
clean up after guests come to our house. / After guests come to our house, we clean up.
5. Students take the college entrance exam. They study very hard.
Before students take the college entrance exam, they study very hard. / Students study very hard
before they take the college entrance exam.
6. A person turns 20 years old. He or she throws a big party.
When a person turns 20 years old, he or she throws a big party. / A person throws a big party when he
or she turns 20 years old.

B Check your answers in A with a partner. Are the sentences in A true for you or for people in
your country?
© National Geographic Learning
Before I eat breakfast, I brush
my teeth. This is true for me.
Really? I always brush
my teeth after I eat!

Grammar Reference | 199

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 199 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 358 ────────

8 ONCE UPON A TIME
LESSON A

THE PAST CONTINUOUS: STATEMENTS

Subject was / were (not) Verb + -ing

I / He / She was / wasn’t    at four o’clock.
studying English    last summer.
You / We / They were / weren’t    after lunch.
Use the past continuous to talk about an action in progress in the past. The action can happen at a
specific point in time or over a period of time.
I was working until 8 pm last night.
We don’t usually use the past continuous with stative verbs (hear, need, know, etc.).
I was needing some new boots last winter.

You can use the past continuous with the simple past to show that one action was in progress when
another action happened. Notice the use of when.
I was taking a shower when the phone rang.

THE PAST CONTINUOUS: QUESTIONS

Wh- word was / were Subject Verb + -ing Answers
you    Yes, I was. / No, I wasn’t.
Yes / No    Were
they reading a story?    Yes, they were. / No, they weren’t.
questions
Was he / she Yes, he / she was. / No, he / she wasn’t.
you    (I was reading)
Wh-    were a story.
What they reading?    (They were reading)
questions
was he / she (He / She was reading) a story.

A Complete the story by writing the verbs in the past continuous.
was eating
Last summer, I (1. eat) dinner in a restaurant with two friends. We
were talking
was wearing
(2. talk) when a woman walked in. She (3. wear) a big hat,
so we couldn’t see her face. The restaurant was nearly empty, but she sat next to our table.

Later, my friend wanted to pay the bill, but he couldn’t find his wallet. We looked on the floor,
was not sitting /
but it wasn’t there. Then I noticed the woman in the hat (4. not / sit) at the
wasn’t sitting
table anymore. The restaurant called the police. The police knew the woman, and they
were looking
(5. look) for her. But they never found her, and my friend never got his
money back.

B Complete each sentence with the past continuous or simple past form of the verbs.
© National Geographic Learning
were talking rang
1. They (talk) loudly when the phone (ring) .
was looking    turned
2. The woman (look) at me when I (turn) around.
arrived was standing
3. When we (arrive) , she (stand) outside her house.
was raining    reached
4. It (rain) when we (reach) the top of the mountain.
was wasn’t working /
5. When there (be) a fire at the office, Gill (not / work) .
was not working
was not listening /    did say
6. Sorry, I (not / listen) . What (say) you ?
wasn’t listening

200 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 200 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 359 ────────

LESSON B

ADVERBS OF MANNER

Cinderella smiled shyly at the prince. Adverbs of manner describe how something is done.
Many end in -ly, and they often come after a verb.
He opened the door quietly.    When there is an object (a noun or pronoun) after
She answered the question correctly.    the verb, the adverb usually comes at the end of the
sentence.
He opened quietly the door.
She drives fast.    Some common adverbs of manner don’t end in -ly.
He studied hard for the exam.    Some examples are fast, hard, and well.
They didn’t do well in school.    Remember: Use well, not good, as an adverb.
They didn’t do good in school.
She was different from other children.    Adjectives, not adverbs, come after stative verbs (for
You seem unhappy.    example, be, have, hear, need, know, seem).

A Rewrite each sentence using the adverb form of the word in parentheses. Use a different verb if
necessary.

1. He is fluent in three languages. (fluent)
He speaks three languages fluently.

2. In the story of Lightning and Thunder, Thunder shouted and was angry when Lightning acted in
a violent way. (angry, violent)
In the story of Lightning and Thunder, Thunder shouted angrily when Lightning acted violently.

3. In the Star Wars movies, Luke Skywalker is a brave fighter. (brave)
In the Star Wars movies, Luke Skywalker fights bravely.

4. When she left the party, Cinderella lost a shoe. (accidental)
When she left the party, Cinderella lost a shoe accidentally. / When she left the party, Cinderella
accidentally lost a shoe.
5. In the story, the man disappears in a mysterious way. (mysterious)

In the story, the man mysteriously disappears. / In the story, the man disappears mysteriously.

6. The girl is only six, but she is a very good singer. (good)
The girl is only six, but she sings very well.

B In five minutes, how many sentences can you make with the words below? Time yourself. You can
use present or past forms of the verbs. Compare your answers with a partner’s.

boy    fight    beautifully
dragon    run    bravely
© National Geographic Learning
girl    sing    fast / quickly
song    struggle with    slowly

The boy and girl fought the
dragon bravely.

Grammar Reference | 201

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 201 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 360 ────────

9 WORK
LESSON A

THE PRESENT PERFECT: STATEMENTS
Contractions
Subject have / has (not) Past participle
I have = I’ve
she has = she’s
I / You /    have
We / They    haven’t
we have = we’ve
worked here for six months.
have not = haven’t
has
He / She
has not = hasn’t
hasn’t
You can use the present perfect to talk about events that started in the past
and continue into the present.

BASE, SIMPLE PAST, AND PAST PARTICIPLE FORMS

Regular verbs Irregular verbs

Simple    Past    Simple    Past    Simple    Past
Base Base Base
past    participle past    participle past    participle

left
left
leave
been
was / were
be
called
called
call
made
made
make
become
became
become
changed
changed
change
put
put
put
begun
began
begin
lived
lived
live
read
read
read
come
came
come
looked
looked
look
said
said
say
done
did
do
moved
moved
move
seen
saw
see
drunk
drank
drink
studied
studied
study
slept
slept
sleep
found
found
find
talked
talked
talk
spoken
spoke
speak
gotten
got
get
tried
tried
try
taken
took
take
given
gave
give
used
used
use
told
told
tell
gone
went
go
wanted
wanted
want
thought
thought
think
had
had
have
worked
worked
work
written
wrote
write
known
knew
know
Use the past participle after have / has (not) to form the present perfect.
Verbs that are regular in the simple past take the same -ed ending for the past participle:
talk / talked / talked.
Verbs that are irregular in the simple past have irregular past participle forms: speak / spoke / spoken.

THE PRESENT PERFECT: WH- QUESTIONS

Wh- word have / has Subject Past participle Answers
have you (I’ve worked there) for two years.
How long worked there?
has she (She’s worked there) since 2012.
Use for + a length of time (for two years, for a long time, for the entire summer, for my whole life).
Use since© National Geographic Learning + a point in time (since 2014, since last September, since Friday, since I was a child).

202 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 202 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 361 ────────

A In your notebook, use the words to make as many sentences in the present perfect as you can.

They    a flight attendant
has    been    for    elementary school.
He    friends
have    worked    since    a long time.
We    at that company

B Complete the quotes. Use the present perfect form of the verbs in parentheses and for or since.
have lived since
Ronaldo: “I (1. live) in the United States (2.) August.
have studied
since
I (3. study) English (4.) I was in high school. I’m studying
have not slept /    for
for an exam right now. I (5. not / sleep) well (6.) two days.
haven’t slept
have drunk    since
I (7. drink) three cups of coffee (8.) 9:00.”

has been    for
Anita: “My son (1. be) in college (2.) three years.
has not come /    for
He (3. not / come) home (4.) a year. I miss him. He
hasn’t come
has had    since
(5. have) a part-time job (6.) March. We
have not talked /    for
(7. not / talk) on the phone (8.) a month.”
haven’t talked

LESSON B

THE SIMPLE PAST AND THE PRESENT PERFECT

Simple past Present perfect
Use the present perfect to talk about
Use the simple past to talk about
actions that began in the past and
completed actions and situations at
continue now, or that happened at a past
a specific time in the past.
time that is unknown or not important.
I worked there from 2017 to 2019.    I’ve worked here for three years.
Statements
I didn’t go out last weekend.    I’ve visited New York three times.
How long have you worked there?
Questions and When did you work there?    For three years.
answers    From 2017 to 2019.    How many times have you visited?
Three times.
ever / never
We often use the present perfect with ever or never to ask about experiences in life (things you
have done / haven’t done before).
Have you ever been to Paris? (ever = in your life) Yes, I have. / No, I haven’t.
I’ve never read this book. (never = not in my whole life)
already / yet
We often use yet (in questions and negatives) and already (in affirmative sentences) with the
present perfect.
Have you finished your work yet?
No, I haven’t finished it yet. / Yes, I’ve already finished it.

© National Geographic Learning
A Circle the correct form of the verb.
1. I moved / have moved to Vietnam with my family in 1998.
2. We ate / have eaten at this restaurant many times.
3. Dave graduated / has graduated from Harvard University three years ago.
4. Alice didn’t fly / hasn’t flown on a plane before. It’s her first time.
5. I live in Mexico City, but I wasn’t born / haven’t been born here.

Grammar Reference | 203

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 203 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 362 ────────

6. Did he call / Has he called you last night?
7. I lived / have lived in Seoul since last summer.
8. Did you ever meet / Have you ever met my manager? Let me introduce you to him.

B Complete the conversations with the simple past or present perfect form of the verbs.

be go have

Have been
A: (1.) you ever to Argentina?

went
B: Yes, I have. I (2.) to Buenos Aires last year.

Did    have
A: (3.) you a good time?

B: Yes, it’s an amazing city!

apply not / receive send

apply
A: Did you (4.) for the job?
haven’t received /
B: Yes, I did. But I (5.) a reply yet.
have not received
did send
A: When (6.) you your application?

B: Last Monday.

live move never / be

A: That’s my old house.
did live
B: When (7.) you there?

moved ’ve never been /
A: When I was a child. My family (8.) to a new house in 2005. I (9.)
have never been
back to it.

10 STAY IN TOUCH
LESSON A

ASKING FOR PERMISSION RESPONSES

Certainly. / Of course. / Sure, no
➊ Would it be OK    problem.
if I called back later? (I’m) sorry, but…
No, not at all. / No, go ahead.
➋ Would you mind (I’m) sorry, but . . .

© National Geographic Learning
No, not at all. / No, go ahead.
➌ Do you mind if I call back later? (I’m) sorry, but . . .

Certainly. / Of course. / Sure, no
➍ May / Could / Can I call back later? problem.
(I’m) sorry, but . . .

➊ & ➋ The use of the simple past verb (called) makes requests with Would sound slightly more
polite or formal.
➋ & ➌ When responding to a request made with Would you mind / Do you mind, answer with no to
give your permission (For example, No, I don’t mind. You can call back later .).
➍ May I and Could I are more formal than Can I.

204 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 204 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 363 ────────

A Unscramble the words to make questions.
1. I / make / can / quick call / a
Can I make a quick call?

2. him / a / leave / could / message / I
Could I leave him a message?

3. OK / turned / it / phone / be / on / would / I / my / if
Would it be OK if I turned on my phone?

4. you / a photo / would / took / if I / of you / mind
Would you mind if I took a photo of you?

B Complete the conversations. Then practice them with a partner.
you
Would
1. A: mind if I opened the window?
at all
No
B: , not . It’s really hot in here.
sit
I
2. A: May here?
sorry
I’m
B: , but my friend is sitting there.
Do    you
3. A: mind if I turn up the volume a bit? It’s hard to hear.
No    go
B: , ahead.
Would    it be
4. A: OK if I didn’t turn in my homework today?
Sure problem
B: , no . Just turn it in tomorrow.

C In your notebook, write the opposite response to each question in B.

LESSON B

VERB + INFINITIVE VS. VERB + GERUND

Certain verbs can be followed by an infinitive
I need to buy a new phone.
(to + verb).
Other verbs can be followed by a gerund
I avoid talking on the phone when I’m driving.
(verb + -ing).
I tried to call you earlier.    Some verbs can be followed by an infinitive
I tried calling you earlier.    or a gerund.
Verbs followed by    Verbs followed by    Verbs followed by
an infinitive    a gerund    an infinitive or a gerund
agree need    appreciate finish    begin love
choose plan    avoid imagine    can’t stand prefer
decide seem    dislike keep    hate start
hope want    enjoy (not) mind    like try
learn would like    feel like suggest
© National Geographic Learning
A Underline the gerund or the infinitive in each sentence. Then check (✓) the correct sentences.
Change the incorrect sentences.
✓
1. I learned to speak Spanish in high school.
2. I avoid to call people on the phone.
I avoid calling people on the phone.
✓
3. I began to raise my voice.
I enjoy playing games on my phone.
4. I enjoy to play games on my phone.

Grammar Reference | 205

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 205 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 364 ────────

5. I agreed turning down the television.
I agreed to turn down the television.
✓
6. I prefer to respond to texts quickly.
I finished doing my homework and then I
7. I finished to do my homework and then I called a friend.
called a friend.
✓
8. I tried texting you twice, but you didn’t reply.

B Complete each question with the infinitive or gerund form of the verb in parentheses. Sometimes
both forms are possible.
to do
1. What do you need (do) this weekend?
to meet
2. Who’s someone you’d like (meet) ?
doing / to do
3. What’s something you can’t stand (do) ?
to learn / learning
4. When did you start (learn) English?
watching
5. What TV shows do you enjoy (watch) ?

C Answer the questions in B. Use complete sentences.
1. I need to clean my house because some friends are coming over for dinner.
2.
3.
4.
5.

11 TECHNOLOGY
LESSON A

USED TO

Subject (not) use(d) to Verb

I / You / He / She / used to wear glasses.
We / They    didn’t use to own a computer.

Use used to to describe habits and actions that happened during a period of time in the past but that
no longer happen.
People used to ride horses for transportation.
Use time expressions like now, today, or these days to make a contrast between the present and the past.
We didn’t use to own a computer, but now we have three of them at home.
Notice the spelling of use to in negative statements. I didn’t used to own a computer.

Question Subject use to Verb Responses
Did own a printer? Yes, I did. / No, I didn’t.
© National Geographic Learning
you use to
Where did go on vacation? I used to go to Canada.
Notice the spelling of use to in questions. Did you used to wear glasses?

A Circle the correct answer to complete each sentence about used to.
1. Use used to to talk about the a. present. b. past.
2. Used to is followed by a. the base form of a verb. b. a gerund (-ing form).
3. Use use to in negative statements and a. responses. b. questions.

206 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 206 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 365 ────────

B Write sentences to compare life today with life 100 years ago. Use the time expressions given.
Follow the model.

1. People had bigger families. (nowadays)
People used to have bigger families. Nowadays, families are smaller.

2. Not many people owned a television. (today)
Not many people used to own a television. Today, many people own televisions.

3. Not many women worked outside of the home. (now)
Not many women used to work outside of the home. Now, a lot of women work outside of the home.

4. Telephones weren’t portable. (these days)
Telephones didn’t use to be portable. These days, people carry their phones everywhere.

5. Technology wasn’t affordable. (now)
Technology didn’t use to be affordable. Now, technology is more affordable.

6. People read books instead of watching TV. (today)
People used to read books instead of watching TV. Today, many people just watch TV.

LESSON B

COMPARISONS WITH AS . . . AS

Phone A is as big as phone B.    Use as + adjective / adverb + as to show that two
(Phone A is 15 cm. Phone B is 15 cm.)    things are equal.
Phone A costs as much as phone B.
(Phone A costs $200. Phone B costs $200.)
Camera A isn’t as affordable as Camera B.    You can use not as . . . as to show that things are
(Camera A costs $200. Camera B costs $150.)    not equal.
Maria didn’t do as well as Carlos on the test.
(Carlos scored 95%. Maria scored 70%.)
My phone works as well as your phone.
Sometimes after as . . . as, you can end a
My phone works as well as yours.
sentence with a pronoun.
I like this phone as much as that phone.
I like this phone as much as that one.
She studies as hard as he studies. (not common) In spoken and written English, it’s common not
She studies as hard as he does. (common)    to repeat the main verb after as . . . as, but to use
She studies as hard as him.    the verb do or a pronoun.

A Unscramble the sentences. Some have more than one possible answer.
1. speaks / she / as / you / English / do / well / as
She speaks English as well as you do.

2. us / don’t / as / have / many / you / classes / as
© National Geographic LearningYou don’t have as many classes as us.
3. computer / heavy / as / this / is / as / one / that
This computer is as heavy as that one. / That computer is as heavy as this one.

4. my / durable / as / tablet / as / isn’t / yours
My tablet isn’t as durable as yours.

5. jacket / as / that / isn’t / this / one / as / fashionable
That jacket isn’t as fashionable as this one. / This jacket isn’t as fashionable as that one.

Grammar Reference | 207

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 207 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 366 ────────

B Compare the two vacuum cleaners in the chart by completing the sentences with (not) as . . . as.
There may be more than one possible correct answer.

The Vacuum Star The Vacuum Pro
weight 6 kilos 6 kilos
price $450 $150
durability lasts 5–10 years lasts 4–5 years
popularity ✰✰✰ ✰✰✰✰✰
Robotic; cleans    Robotic; cleans
convenience
everywhere by itself    everywhere by itself

1. weight
is as heavy as
The Vacuum Star the Vacuum Pro.

2. price
isn’t as expensive as / doesn’t cost as much as
The Vacuum Pro the Vacuum Star.

3. durability
isn’t as durable as / doesn’t last as long as
The Vacuum Pro the Vacuum Star.

4. popularity
isn’t as popular as
The Vacuum Star the Vacuum Pro.

5. convenience
is as convenient as
The Vacuum Star the Vacuum Pro.

12 TRAVEL
LESSON A

MODAL VERBS OF NECESSITY

Present forms Past forms
You must show your ID to get on the plane.
I have to buy a backpack for my trip.
I / You / He / She / We / They had to
Affirmative He has to pack an adapter.
wait at the airport for an hour.
We’ve got to exchange some money.
She’s got to check in online.
I don’t have to check any luggage.    I / You / He / She / We / They didn’t
Negative
She doesn’t have to show her passport.    have to wait long.
Use must, have / has to, and have / has got to + the base form of a verb to say that something is
necessary.
In spoken and written English, have / has to is most common.
© National Geographic Learning
Must is often used to talk about rules or laws. Must is stronger than have (got) to.
Only have to can be used in the negative.
Use had to / didn’t have to to talk about things that were necessary / not necessary in the past.

A Correct the error in each sentence.
She doesn’t have to pack her suitcase.
1. She doesn’t has to pack her suitcase.
They had to leave yesterday. / They have to leave today.
2. They have to leave yesterday.
I don’t have to water the plants. / I have to water the plants.
3. I haven’t to water the plants.

208 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 208 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 367 ────────

All passengers must board the flight now. / All
passengers have to board the flight now.
4. All passengers must to board the flight now.
We didn’t have to pay in cash. / We had to pay in cash.
5. We didn’t had to pay in cash.
You have got to check in before your flight. / You’ve got to check
6. You got to check in before your flight.
in before your flight.
He had to give his house keys to a friend.
7. He had give his house keys to a friend.

LESSON B

QUESTION FORM REVIEW

Yes / No questions Wh- questions
Do you travel a lot?    Where do you usually go?
Simple present
Yes, I do. / No, I don’t.    I often go to Canada.
Present    Are you planning a trip now?    Where are you thinking of going next?
continuous    Yes, I am. / No, I’m not.    I’m thinking of visiting Peru.
Have you ever been to Rome?    How many times have you been there?
Present perfect
Yes, I have. / No, I haven’t.    I’ve been twice before.
Did you have to get a visa?    When did you apply for it?
Simple past
Yes, I did. / No, I didn’t.    I applied about six months before I left.
Will you ever go there again?    How long will you be away for?
Future with will
Yes, I will. / No, I won’t.    I’ll be away for about a year.
Can you show me your passport?
Modal verbs (can,    How can I change my seat?
Yes, certainly. / No, sorry. I don’t
should, etc.)    You can call the airline.
have one.
Subject and object questions
In subject questions, the question word is the
In object questions, the question word is NOT the
subject of the verb.
subject of the verb.
Who traveled with you?
Where did you go on vacation?
My best friend (traveled with me).
(We went) to Hawaii (on vacation).
What is in the car?
What did you pack?
Your suitcase (is in the car).
(I packed) too many clothes!
The word order is the same as an affirmative
You need an auxiliary verb (do, be) in object
sentence.
questions.

A Unscramble the questions.
1. planning / she / trips / like / does
Does she like planning trips
?

2. does / it / how / on the subway / long / take
How long does it take on the subway
?

3. train / are / they / why / the / taking
Why are they taking the train
?

4. ever / your / an / lost / luggage / has / airline
Has an airline ever lost your luggage
?
© National Geographic Learning
5. have / plans / you / made / what / for the summer
What plans have you made for the summer
?

6. where / did / year / you / go / last
Where did you go last year
?

7. you / to join / our / would / tour group / like
Would you like to join our tour group
?

Grammar Reference | 209

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 209 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 368 ────────

8. will / how / many / in the group / people / be
How many people will be in the group
?

9. books / who / flights / normally / your
Who normally books your flights
?

10. your / what / with / happened / flight
What happened with your flight
?

B Match the answers below to the questions in A.
4
a. No, never. I’ve been really lucky.
9
b. My assistant usually does.
1
c. Yes, she does.
2
d. About half an hour.
5
e. I haven’t made any yet. What about you?
6
f. We didn’t go anywhere. We stayed at home.
10
g. It was canceled!
7
h. Thanks, but I like traveling solo.
8
i. About six. It’s quite small.
3
j. They’re afraid of flying.

© National Geographic Learning

210 | Grammar Reference

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 210 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 369 ────────

INFORMATION GAP ACTIVITIES

UNIT 1: LESSON B, READING

D
Student A: BLACK
1. He’s a successful entertainer.
2. In school, he was quiet and shy and wasn’t good at sports. Other boys bullied him.
3. He worked hard to learn yo-yo tricks and became a world champion. He performs all over the
world.

Student B: Lindsey Stirling
1. She’s a musician (a violinist).
2. As a child, her parents couldn’t afford to pay for many music lessons. She didn’t win the TV
talent show she was on.

3. She made an album, won an award, and has a very popular channel online.

UNIT 8: LESSON B, ACTIVE ENGLISH

A
Student A: Look at the picture of a traditional fairy fale below. Take turns describing your picture
to a partner and listening to him / her describe his / her picture. Write down any
differences between the two pictures. (There are at least seven differences.) Do not
look at your partner’s picture!

© National Geographic Learning

Information Gap Activities | 211

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 211 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 370 ────────

UNIT 8: LESSON B, ACTIVE ENGLISH

A
Student B: Look at the picture of a modern fairy tale above. Take turns describing your picture
to a partner and listening to him / her describe his / her picture. Write down any
differences between the two pictures. (There are at least seven differences.) Do not
look at your partner’s picture!

© National Geographic Learning

212 | Information Gap Activities

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 212 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 371 ────────

WRITING MODELS

UNIT 1

When I was fourteen, I couldn’t swim. As a
Start by explaining
child, I was afraid of the water, so I never
what you couldn’t
learned. Usually, this wasn’t a problem, but in
do and why you
the summer, things were different. All of my
wanted to learn.
friends went to the public pool on hot days. I
went, too, but I had to watch them have fun.
Finally, I decided to take swimming lessons at
Use at first to
a place near my house. The class met twice a
talk about what
week. At first, I was very nervous, but I didn’t
happened at the
give up. I practiced, and by the end, I was a
beginning of a
good swimmer.
process, before
things changed.

UNIT 3

The Yonaguni Monument
The Yonaguni Monument is a group of
large underwater rocks about 25 meters
(82 feet) high in the Pacific Ocean, near
Japan. The mysterious objects look like the
pyramids in Egypt and the Americas. Some
Use verbs like
scientists believe they may be from an
believe, say, and
ancient underwater city, but there is no proof.
think to introduce
We need to do more research to solve this
opinions.
mystery.

The Marfa Lights
The Marfa Lights often appear in the night sky
near the desert town of Marfa, Texas (US).
Use in fact when
The lights are about the size of a basketball,
introducing evidence
and there are often two or three of them.
or stating something
Some people say they could be lights from
true that is different
cars or planes, but in fact, the Marfa Lights
from what people
first appeared in 1883—before there were
said or thought.
such vehicles. The lights sometimes seem to
fly close to houses, so some people think they
© National Geographic Learningmight be aliens from space.

Writing Models | 213

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 213 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 372 ────────

UNIT 4

My Style Profile
1. For school or work, I usually get dressed up.
2. It’s important for clothes to be comfortable,
stylish, and inexpensive.
3. My two favorite clothing items are my gray
sweater and black skirt. They suit me.
4. I look good in these colors: black, white,
red, gray, dark blue.
5. My favorite brands or clothing stores are
Remember to use
Mango and UNIQLO.
the simple present
6. I walk to and from my office Monday through
to describe habits
Friday, so I wear casual sneakers for the
and routines.
commute and then change into high heels at
the office. I need to dress formally for work, so
I often wear skirts, nice pants, or sometimes
a suit. Also, my office is always cold, so
Use also to add
I really need some warm sweaters, long
more information.
sleeve blouses, and stylish jackets. On the
weekends, I like to wear very casual clothes,
such as jeans, sweatshirts, and sweatpants.

UNIT 6

My name is Miguel Sanz. I am a student
at the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de
México (UNAM) in Mexico City. This May,
I am going to graduate with a degree in
Use the simple
journalism. In my third year at UNAM, I did an
past to describe
internship at El Universal, one of Mexico’s
your previous work
largest media companies. There, I helped
experiences.
senior reporters with different news stories
by doing research. I also helped manage
the company’s social media accounts. In
my free time, I enjoy playing sports, and at
UNAM, I am on the chess and swim teams. I
also like learning languages, and in addition
End your profile
to Spanish, I speak English and some
by describing your
Portuguese. After graduation, I’m going to
future goals. Use
travel around Europe during the summer.
be going to or will.
Then I’m going to do an internship with a
media company in Spain because I definitely
© National Geographic Learningintend to work as a journalist in the future.

214 | Writing Models

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 214 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 373 ────────

UNIT 7

In Korea, we have a holiday called Chuseok.
Ancestors are
It usually takes place in September or early
people who were in
October. It is a holiday for giving thanks and
your family many,
remembering our ancestors. Many people
many years ago.
travel to their hometowns to spend Chuseok
with their families.

Every family celebrates Chuseok a little
Time expressions,
differently. In my family, we prepare traditional
such as on
foods a day or two before Chuseok. On
Chuseok morning,
Chuseok morning, my family does a special
can come at the
ceremony to remember our ancestors. After
beginning of the
that, we have a big meal, and we give each
sentence, followed
Time expressions
other small gifts. In the evening, we have a
by a comma (,).
like during
nice dinner. After the meal, we play games
Chuseok can also
or watch TV. There are lots of fun TV shows
come at the end
on during Chuseok!
of a sentence
and no comma is
needed.

UNIT 8

A Modern Little Red Riding Hood
Once upon a time, there was a young girl who
Many fairy tales
always wore a red sweatshirt with a hood.
begin with the
One night, the girl’s grandmother called to
phrase Once
Use an adverb
say she was sick, so the girl left quickly to
upon a time.
of manner to
bring some soup to her grandmother. The
describe how an
girl got directions to her grandmother’s house
action was done.
on her phone. Everything was working fine
until suddenly her phone’s battery died. She
was lost!
Use past
continuous
It was very cold and dark outside. The young
and simple
girl ran nervously through the streets until she
past verbs.
found a store that was open. Fortunately, the
owner of the store was friendly and let the girl
charge her phone there. Soon, her phone was
working again, so she got the directions she
needed and found her grandmother’s house.
Many fairy tales
Her grandmother ate the soup, felt better, and
end with the
they lived happily ever after.
sentence They
lived happily
ever after.
© National Geographic Learning

Writing Models | 215

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 215 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 374 ────────

UNIT 10

a. x
From:
Katya Petrova
Subject: Project meeting

Hi,
ASAP is an
I’ve received some possible designs, so let’s
meet. Are you free today at noon? It’s important
abbreviation
to choose the best design ASAP.
that means
as soon as
– K
possible.

b.
SAVE! SAVE! SAVE!
25% discount on ALL orders today only!
You MUST click here NOW for more details!

c.
Jez
In English,
Hi! Lunch today @ 12? New place on the corner?
@ can be
used as an
abbreviation
d.
Sounds great but have meeting about project
for at. It’s OK to use emojis in
@ 12. Sorry How about tomorrow?
informal messages, but
don’t use more than
e.    one or two.
x
From:
Sandra Chung
Subject:
Party for Kelvin

Hi everyone,

Kelvin is leaving next week, so we’re having a
small party. I can get a present. Does anyone
like making cakes? Or maybe we could buy
him a nice one?

See you in the conference room next Friday
at 1 pm!

Best,
Sandra

x
f.
To: Sandra@email.com
Subject: RE: Party for Kelvin

Good idea! I can make it. Chocolate?

Send

© National Geographic Learning

216 | Writing Models

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 216 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 375 ────────

CREDITS

Illustrations ©Cengage Learning

Cover Keng Po Leung/Alamy Stock Photo; 2–3 (spread) Susan Seubert/National Geographic Image Collection;
4 © John Stanmeyer; 5 (cl) AJ_Watt/iStock/Getty Images Plus/Getty images, (c) Lucky Business/Shutterstock.com,
(cr) JGI/Jamie Grill/Getty Images; 6 Jonathan Erasmus/iStock/Getty Images; 7 Sorrorwoot Chaiyawong/Alamy Stock
Photo; 8 Logan Werlinger/Barcroft Media/Getty Images; 9 Dina Litovsky/Redux; 10–11 (spread) © Giordano Ciampini;
12 SK/Alamy Stock Photo; 13 Hamza Khan/Alamy Stock Photo; 16–17 (spread) Foxys Forest Manufacture/Shutterstock.
com; 18 TinasDreamworld/Alamy Stock Photo; 19 LauriPatterson/E+/Getty Images; 20 Tei Sinthip/Shutterstock.com;
21 Alastair Miller/Bloomberg/Getty Images; 22 Nikreates/Alamy Stock Photo; 23 Frank Bienewald/LightRocket/Getty
Images; 24 © News Life Media/StockFood; 26 © Ami Vitale; 27 Jonathan Nackstrand/AFP/Getty Images; 29 Woman’s
Value/Camera Press/Redux; 30–31 (spread) © Josselin Cornou; 32 AGE Fotostock/Alamy Stock Photo; 33 dokosola/
Shutterstock.com; 34 Stockcreative/iStock/Getty Images; 35 ShutterWorx/E+/Getty Images; 37 Sermsak Rattanagowin/
EyeEm/Getty Images; 38–39 (spread) George Steinmetz/Getty Image News/Getty Images; 40 George Pachantouris/
Moment/Getty Images; 42 Stephane Granzotto/Nature Picture Library; 43 © Nora Shawki; 44 David Doubilet/National
Geographic Image Collection; 46–47 (spread) Nick Fox/Shutterstock.com; 49 VCG/Visual China Group/Getty Images;
50 Islandstock/Alamy Stock Photo; 52 Derek Teo/Alamy Stock Photo; 53 Streetstyleshooters/German Select/Getty
Images; 54–55 (spread) Luca Locatelli/National Geographic Image Collection; 56 (tl) Kaspars Grinvalds/Shutterstock.
com, (tr) dowell/Moment/Getty Images, (cl) OneStockPhoto/Shutterstock.com, (cr) Ivan Kruk/Shutterstock.com;
57 DaniloAndjus/E+/Getty Images; 59 monkeybusinessimages/iStock/Getty Images; 60–61 (spread) Devasahayam
Chandra Dhas/iStock Unreleased/Getty Images; 62 © Tyrone Turner; 64 Vladimir Zivojinovic/AFP/Getty Images;
66 TK Kurikawa/Shutterstock.com; 67 lazyllama/Shutterstock.com; 68–69 (spread) Lepretre Pierre/Moment/Getty
Images; 70 estherpoon/iStock Editorial/Getty Images; 73 antorti/iStock/Getty Images; 74–75 (spread) © Michael Moran/
OTTO; 77 © Nigel Dickinson Photography; 78 Jimmy Xiao/Moment/Getty Images; 81 V. Fournier/Jeune Afrique-REA/
Redux; 82–83 (spread) Boston Globe/Getty Images; 84 Howard Kingsnorth/Stone/Getty Images; 85 Attila Cser/
Reuters; 86 csp/Shutterstock.com; 87 Toby Canham/Getty Images Entertainment/Getty Images; 88 David Nunuk/AGE
Fotostock; 90–91 (spread) Marcelo Chacón Aracena/500px Prime/Getty Images; 92 UPI/Alamy Stock Photo;
93 Kazuhiro Nogi/AFP/Getty Images; 94 kali9/E+/Getty Images; 96 Klaus Vedfelt/DigitalVision/Getty Images;
97 Preau Louis-Marie/Hemis.fr/Alamy Stock Photo; 98–99 (spread) Poras Chaudhary/Stone/Getty Images; 100 philippe
giraud/Corbis Sport/Getty Images; 101 AGCuesta/Shutterstock.com; 102 (tr) Leszek Czerwonka/Alamy Stock Photo,
(cr1) Purple Collar Pet Photography/Moment/Getty Images, (cr2) majeczka/Shutterstock.com; 103 Ze Martinusso/
Moment/Getty Images; 104–105 (spread) RudyBalasko/iStock Editorial/Getty Images; 106 AA Film Archive/Alamy
Stock Photo; 107 LucVi/Shutterstock.com; 108 studiocasper/E+/Getty Images; 111 BFA/Alamy Stock Photo;
112–113 (spread) John Lamparski/Getty Images Entertianment/Getty Images; 114 © Glenn Kasner; 115 Roberto
Ricciuti/Getty Images Entertainment/Getty Images; 116 AscentXmedia/E+/Getty Images; 117 Jenny Adler/National
Geographic Image Collection; 118–119 (spread) Carsten Peter/National Geographic Image Collection; 120 Tannis
Toohey/Toronto Star/Getty Images; 121 (tl) Maika Elan/Bloomberg/Getty Images, (tc) Cavan Images/Cavan/Getty
Images, (tr) Carlos Becerra/Getty Images News/Getty Images; 123 Loop Images Ltd/Alamy Stock Photo; 124 Thomas
Barwick/Stone/Getty Images; 125 Courtesy of Tierney Thys; 126 Courtesy of Asher Jay; 127 Rebecca Drobis/National
Geographic Image Collection; 128 Tutatama/Alamy Stock Photo; 131 © Corey Arnold; 132 Zuma Press, Inc./Alamy
Stock Photo; 134–135 (spread) Covenant House International/Getty Images Entertainment/Getty Images; 136 Sven
Torfinn/Panos Pictures/Redux; 137 © Nicky Loh; 139 Michael Dwyer/Alamy Stock Photo; 141 xavierarnau/E+/Getty
Images; 143 Matej Leskovsek/Reuters; 145 Westend61/Getty Images; 147 Carolyn Drake/Magnum Photos New York;
148–149 (spread) Peter Hirth/laif/Redux; 150 filadendron/E+/Getty Images; 151 Museum of Science and Industry,
Chicago/Archive Photos/Getty Images; 152 Peter Griffith/Stone/Getty Images; 153 Glasshouse Images/Alamy Stock
Photo; 154 © Jenny Tough; 155 Maskot/Getty Images; 156–157 (spread) Westend61/Getty Images; 158 Jonas Hafner/
EyeEm/Getty Images; 159 (tl) Wenn Rights Ltd/Alamy Stock Photo, (tr) Grzegorz Czapski/Alamy Stock Photo;
160 Burak Akbulut/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images; 161 © Dan Root Photography; 162–163 (spread) © Greg Goodman;
164 moodboard/Alamy Stock Photo; 165 Art Wager/E+/Getty Images; 166 Tuan Tran/Moment/Getty Images; 167 Edson
Vandeira/National Geographic Image Collection/Getty Images; 168 DieterMeyrl/E+/Getty Images; 170–171 (spread)
mihtiander/iStock/Getty Images Plus/Getty Images; 172 Courtesy of Andrés Ruzo; 174 Mike Ford/Alamy Stock Photo;
175 Beyondmylens Harsh/Photography/Moment/Getty Images; 176 Pikoso.kz/Shutterstock.com.

© National Geographic Learning

Credits | 217

WLTB_L2_EM_P178-P217_ptg01.indd 217 30/04/21 1:00 PM

──────── Page 376 ────────

SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT

This edition of World Link provides three types of supplementary content to accommodate a range of
instructional needs. Answer keys and audio scripts are provided at the end of this section.

Bridge Units
Bridge Units, provided every three units, are designed as refreshers before students move on to a
new block of content. They briefly review the main language goals of the previous three units (and,
in the case of Unit 1, the last three units of the previous level), with a focus on getting students to
remember what they already know and bring passive knowledge to the front of their minds. So, for
example, the Bridge Unit for Unit 1 of Student Book 3 reviews Units 10–12 of Student Book 2. The
Bridge Unit for the beginning of Student Book Intro supports familiarity with topics such as classroom
language and greetings. Exercises are communicative in nature and include pair and group work.

Instructors may find these Bridge Units useful when starting a new level or combo split level, but
quarterly bridge units (reviewing units 1–3 or 7–9 of a given level) may also be of use when there is
a break in the academic calendar or if particular students in the class could benefit from additional
support.

Review Pages
Review pages are also provided with this edition, with a set of review exercises for every unit. These
pages focus heavily on consolidating students’ knowledge of the units’ grammar, with an additional
emphasis on listening and reading skill development. Exercises are geared more toward an
assessment approach and emphasize individual work.

Instructors can again use these pages as differentiated instruction for students who may need
remediation, as extra review for the whole class leading up to an assessment, as homework, or even
as Unit quizzes.

Process Writing
For classes that wish to further support the writing practice in the Student’s Book, a Process Writing
set of exercises is provided every three units. These materials guide students through the planning
and organizing phases of writing and encourage reflection and critical review of the finished draft.
Classes working with more formal training in writing may choose to make use of this resource on a
regular basis, or once or twice per course.

For ease of access, you may choose to download this supplementary content to print from the
companion site, or email to your students to print, rather than photocopy from the book. Login
credentials are provided on the inside front cover of this Teacher’s Book. Audio files and answer keys
are also on the companion site.

These additional resources are intended to be flexible options and are not required for success with
World Link. We hope they provide useful additional support for your specific course needs.

© National Geographic Learning

T218 | SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 218 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 377 ────────

BRIDGE TO UNIT 1

1 GRAMMAR

A Work with a partner. Take turns giving advice for the situations below. Use the positive or negative
imperative form of the verbs in the box.

drink eat go stay up take wash

1. A: I don’t want to catch a cold.
4. A: My head hurts.
Wash
B: your hands often.
B: Here, an aspirin.
2. A: I need to lose weight.
5. A: I’m so tired!
B: too much soda.
B: Well, so late every night!
3. A: I want to be healthier.
6. A: I think my arm is broken!
B: a lot of fruit and
B: Why are you waiting? to
vegetables.
the hospital right now!

B Match the sentence parts. Then create questions to ask and answer with a partner.
b
1. When I meet new people,    a. when I study late at night.
2. I feel happy    b. I don’t know what to say.
3. When I fail an exam,    c. when I spend time with my family.
4. I can’t focus    d. I get stressed and anxious.
5. When I don’t feel well,    e. I take aspirin and drink tea.
6. When I have a lot to do,    f. I make a schedule to get everything done.

Do you know what to say when
you meet new people?
Not really. I’m not good at
small talk.

C Complete the sentences with the affirmative or negative form of can or could.
can can’t
1. Nadia speak Russian, but she read or write it.
2. My father ride a bike until he was 15 years old.
3. Pablo and Michele play basketball well?
4. Alex draw anything he sees. He’s a great artist.
5. Tere play the piano when she was four years old. It was amazing!
6. you speak English when you were ten?
© National Geographic Learning
D Correct the errors with because and so in the sentences. Two of the sentences are correct.
so
1. I’m afraid of animals, because I don’t have a pet.
2. Jon exercises every day because he wants to do a triathlon.
3. Iris can’t speak English, because she’s learning it.
4. We did well on the test so we studied.
5. Angel missed class yesterday so he had a headache.
6. Maria and Chris are working, so they can’t come to the movies with us.

BRIDGE TO UNIT 1 | T219

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 219 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 378 ────────

E Read the sentences in the present continuous. Write P if the sentence is about the present. Write F
if the sentence is about the future.
F
1. We’re watching that new documentary tonight.

2. The movie is coming out next week. Do you want to go see it?

3. Look outside! It’s snowing.

4. I’m leaving around 7 am tomorrow morning.

5. I’m sorry, but he’s not here. He’s working.

6. Andrea’s not feeling well.

7. They’re meeting at the theater at 8.

F Complete the sentences to make them true for you. Use the correct form of the adjectives below.
Then discuss your answers with a partner using the expressions for agreeing and disagreeing
below.

entertained / entertaining    frightened / frightening
bored / boring
excited / exciting    interested / interesting
depressed / depressing
exhausted / exhausting    surprised / surprising
disappointed / disappointing

1. At the end of a long day, I feel .
2. I’m when I watch my favorite movie.
3. I think action movies are .
4. I feel when I watch horror movies.
5. I don’t like when a movie has a(n) ending.
6. I think romantic comedies are .

At the end of a long day,
I feel exhausted.
That’s exactly
how I feel.

AGREEING AND DISAGREEING
When you’re sharing opinions with your classmates, use language like this to agree
and disagree.
Give an opinion Agree Disagree
In my opinion . . .    I agree with you 100%.    I don’t think so.
The way I see it . . .    You’re absolutely right.    I (totally) disagree.
If you ask me . . .    That’s exactly how I feel.    That’s not always true.

© National Geographic Learning

T220 | BRIDGE TO UNIT 1

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 220 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 379 ────────

1.
2
VOCABULARY
2.
A Use the words in the box to label the picture.
3.
arm back chest foot hand head leg stomach
4.

head
1.
5.
6.
2.
3.
4.
7.
5.
6.
7.
8.
8.

B Complete the sentences with the words in the box.
brave dangerous safe successful
curious difficult stressed talented

talented
1. Roberto plays the piano very well—he’s quite , in fact.
2. Javier wants to go rock climbing—he doesn’t think it’s at all.
3. I think Gloria is to move to a new country alone.
4. I’m very about other countries, so I like to travel.
5. Carmen owns a popular restaurant. She’s very .
6. Do you think it’s to jump off that rock?
7. I always feel the night before a big exam.
8. Learning a new language is . It takes a lot of hard work.

C Write the type of movie next to the description. Then tell a partner what
your favorite movie is.

action movie documentary horror movie science fiction
classic movie drama romantic comedy

classic movie
1. an old, famous movie
My favorite movie is
Casablanca. I love
2. a movie about real people or events
classic movies.
3. an exciting movie about spies
4. a very frightening movie
© National Geographic Learning
5. a movie about a serious subject
6. a movie about an imaginary future
7. a light, funny movie about people in relationships

BRIDGE TO UNIT 1 | T221

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 221 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 380 ────────

D Add letters to complete the adjectives that describe movies. Then work with a partner to make
sentences using the words.
t e r i n Black Panther was an
1. en ta ni g
entertaining movie.
2. io e t
3. f n y
4. su pr i
5. car
6. b ng
7. e c tin
8. rig a

3
WRITING

A Write a paragraph about a challenging experience. What difficult thing happened to you? Why was
it difficult? Did things get better? Why or why not? Use the simple past; connect your ideas with
because and so.

B Exchange paragraphs with a partner and check your partner’s writing for the following:
• Is the paragraph organized well?
• Do all of the sentences begin with a capital letter?
• Are all of the words spelled correctly?
• Was the correct punctuation used?
• Are there any grammar mistakes?

4
ENGLISH IN YOUR LIFE

A Circle Yes or No to answer the questions below. Then ask and answer the questions with a partner.
Use because to explain your reasons.

1. Do you write emails in English? Yes No
2. Do you text in English? Yes No
3. Do you write comments in English on social media? Yes No
4. Do you read websites in English? Yes No
5. Do you listen to songs in English? Yes No
6. Do you watch movies or TV shows in English? Yes No
© National Geographic Learning
Do you write emails
in English?
Yes, I do.

Why?

Because my colleague
works in the United States.

T222 | BRIDGE TO UNIT 1

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 222 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 381 ────────

BRIDGE TO UNIT 4

1 GRAMMAR

A Complete the sentences with the simple present or present continuous forms of the verbs
in parentheses.
lives
1. David (live) in a small town near London.
2. At the moment, we (stay) with friends in Beijing.
3. Kate (study) in Paris this term.
4. I (have) five brothers and sisters.
5. Antonio and Jeremy (play) basketball on the weekends.
6. Luisa (learn) Portuguese in Brazil right now.

B Write questions to match the answers. Then practice asking and answering the questions with a
partner.
did you graduate from high school
1. A: When ? B: I graduated from high school two years ago.
2. A: Who ? B: Jose helped us with the project.
3. A: How long ? B: Gloria worked at the school for ten years.
4. A: Was ? B: No, Kim wasn’t a good art student.
5. A: How ? B: They learned photography by taking lessons.
6. A: Did ? B: Yes, Silvia passed the history exam.

C Correct the errors with comparative adjectives in the sentences below. Two of the sentences are correct.
1. This hamburger is more tastier than the one I ate last week.
2. That restaurant is famouser than this one.
3. Which is more delicious, your cooking or mine?
4. Wow! This sausage is spicyer than I expected.
5. What goes more well with baked chicken—potatoes or rice?
6. Your pizza is bigger than mine.
TIP
You can use cognates to help you
D Complete the sentences with the superlative form of the
learn new vocabulary. Cognates are
adjectives in parentheses.
words in two different languages that
the spiciest
1. Thai food is (spicy) food in the world.
look and sound similar and have the
same meaning. For example, delicious
2. Piccola Italia is (popular) pizza
and delicioso are English / Spanish
restaurant in town.
cognates. Keep a section for cognates
in your vocabulary notebook.
3. That was (good) ice cream I ever had!
© National Geographic Learning
However, be careful of “false friends,”
4. Food trucks are (trendy) way to eat
which are words that look similar but
lunch.
have different meanings. For example,
5. I’m taking my girlfriend to dinner at
large and largo are English / Spanish
(romantic) place I know.
false friends. They do not mean the
same thing. Large means big. The
6. Yesterday, I had (boring) meal of my
English word for largo is long.
life.

BRIDGE TO UNIT 4 | T223

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 223 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 382 ────────

E Complete the sentences with the simple present or present continuous forms of the verbs in the box.

appreciate believe live make not own work

believe
1. I never anything Carlos tells me.
2. The apple pie you smells delicious!
3. At the moment, Leah with her parents.
4. She an apartment yet.
5. We on a research project this week.
6. I always your help around the house.

F Unscramble the words to make statements. Remember to capitalize the first word in each sentence
and add a period at the end.
There could be life on other planets.
1. could / on / other / be / there / life / planets
2. water / some / may / planets / have
3. life / be / the / we / only / intelligent / can’t
4. theory / might / correct / the / be
5. lights / from / a / may / the / plane / be
6. everything / scientists / know / galaxies / can’t / about / other

2
VOCABULARY

A Complete the sentences with the words in the box. Some of the words need to be in the plural form.
boyfriend coworker get along well neighbor
classmate friend going out spend time together

going out
1. Gemma is my girlfriend. We started last year.
2. Lisa, Mario’s , lives across the street from him.
3. My Enrique and Isabel study with me at Central College.
4. Jen started going out with her Andrew last year.
5. Julie and Kate are best —they met in elementary school.
6. Leo’s from the store are all students.
7. Hadija and Soon-mi are old friends. They live far from each other, so it’s hard for them to
.

8. The colleagues on the team , so it’s easy for them to work together.

B Work with a partner to match the parts of the expressions. Words can be used more than once.
© National Geographic Learning
Then make sentences that are true for you, using the expressions. Share them with your partner.

fail    a class
get    an exam
have    fun
pass    a good / bad grade
prepare for    lessons
take

T224 | BRIDGE TO UNIT 4

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 224 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 383 ────────

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

TIP
When you are having a conversation in English, pay attention to
I am taking a class in Latin
people’s gestures (communication with their body or hands). Gestures
American art. It’s really interesting!
help you understand what the other person is saying. Which gestures
do you use when you speak?

C Describe the foods with the adjectives in the box. You can use some words more than once and
more than one answer may be correct. Then ask a partner if they like each food and why or why
not.

delicious juicy oily salty sour spicy sweet tasty

delicious, juicy, sweet
1.    3.    5.
pineapple    potato chips    yogurt

2.    4.    6.
sausage    hamburger    lemon

Do you like pineapple?
Yes! It’s delicious and sweet.

© National Geographic Learning
D Circle the correct option to complete each sentence.
1. Charlie always has good luck / bad luck—last week he broke his leg going down the stairs.
2. We saw Marta on purpose / by chance at the grocery store. What a nice surprise!
3. We need to include facts / intuition in our report.
4. It’s my lucky / unlucky day! I just found $100 on the street.

5. Scientists are still investigating / making sense why the Nazca lines were created.
6. Many buildings don’t have a 13th floor because people think 13 is a(n) lucky / unlucky number.

BRIDGE TO UNIT 4 | T225

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 225 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 384 ────────

7. Archaeologists solve / do research to learn about ancient people and places.

8. There’s no proof / theory that Bigfoot is real.

9. I wear my lucky necklace to bring / avoid bad luck.

10. Scientists spend a lot of their time collecting explanation / data so they can analyze it and learn
something new.

11. She usually buys one lottery ticket, but today she bought five to increase her chances / take a
chance of winning.

12. I cannot figure out / investigate the answer to this math problem. It’s so difficult!

3
WRITING

A In your notebook, write a short paragraph comparing two restaurants that you know. Use the
comparative and superlative forms of adjectives. Include this information:

• Types of food • Service
• Food quality • Best dishes
• Prices • Your rating (1–5)

4
PRONUNCIATION PRACTICE

A Read these words aloud to yourself. Count and write the number of syllables in each word. Then
check your answers with a partner.
3
TIP
1. coworker
7. benefits
English does not have simple rules
2. neighbor
8. prevent
for which syllable receives the
3. exams
main stress in a word. You should
9. avoid
learn the stress in each word as
4. preparing
10. unlikely
you learn its spelling and meaning.
5. delicious
11. investigate    Dictionaries point out word stress
and pronunciation.
6. terrible
12. explanation

B Work with a partner and practice saying the words in A. Are you putting the stress on the right
syllable? Underline the syllable in each word that has the main stress.

C Match each word to the pronunciation pattern that best describes it.
a. colleague
1. In English, two-syllable nouns and adjectives often
have the stress on the first syllable.
b. prepare
2. Two-syllable verbs often have the stress on the
c. increase (v.)
© National Geographic Learning
second syllable.
d. explanation
3. Words that end in -tion always have the stress on
e. tasty
the second to last syllable.
f. lessons
g. reduce

T226 | BRIDGE TO UNIT 4

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 226 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 385 ────────

BRIDGE TO UNIT 7

1 GRAMMAR

A Replace the percentages with the correct quantity expressions from the box.

all a lot half most none some

Half
1. 50%: of my family members have four-year college degrees.
2. 0%: of my friends speak Chinese.
3. 65%: of us are learning English.
4. 80%: of the residents in this city own a car.
5. 35%: of them also take public transportation at times.
6. 100%: of my classmates live at home.

B Work with a partner. Take turns giving each other advice about the situations below. Use should,
could, ought to, and had better.

1. I don’t know what to wear to my job interview.
2. I’m going to live with a family in the UK for a year.
3. I want to change my look a little bit.
4. Oh, no. It’s starting to rain!
5. These are my favorite old jeans—I’m going to wear them on my date.
6. I need some new clothes, but I don’t have very much money.

TIP
It is important to think about which English phrases you can use with friends and which ones you
should use in formal situations. For example, you can give advice to your friends using the words
above, but you should not be so straightforward with your boss or people you don’t know very well.
Use words like maybe and perhaps to be less direct: Perhaps you could look for new clothes online.

C Work with a partner. Take turns making requests for the situations below.
1. There isn’t any food in the kitchen. (would / mind / go)
Would you mind going to the grocery store?

2. There are a lot of dirty clothes in the bedroom. (could / do)

3. The living room rug is dirty. (will / vacuum)

4. It’s almost dinnertime and you’re hungry. (can / make)
© National Geographic Learning
5. You’re at the train station, and there aren’t any taxis. (could / pick up)

6. You want to go to a popular restaurant for lunch. (would / mind / make)

BRIDGE TO UNIT 7 | T227

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 227 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 386 ────────

D Fill in the blanks and use subject relative clauses with that to write sentences describing important
people and places in your life. Remember: begin each subject relative clause with that followed by
a verb. The verb must agree with the noun it describes. Then, in pairs, ask and answer questions
about the people and places you have identified.
Shang that speaks five languages
1. is my coworker .
(name of coworker)

2. is my friend .
(name of friend)

3. is my classmate .
(name of classmate)

4. and are stores .
(name of store) (name of store)

5. is a neighborhood .
(name of neighborhood)

6. is a city .
(name of city)

Who is Shang?    Tell me about Kanda.

Shang is my coworker that    Kanda is a neighborhood in Tokyo that
speaks five languages!    has a lot of great restaurants and stores.

E Complete the sentences with the correct forms of be going to or will.
is going to
1. My study group meet at 6:00 tonight.
2. Wow, class is canceled? Then I go to the gym.
3. Martina told me she visit Ireland next summer.
4. Wait! I help you with those boxes.
5. My best friend and I attend the same college in the fall.
6. Are you hot? I open the window and turn on the fan.

F Complete the conversations with the words in parentheses and predictions using be going to or
will. Some sentences may have more than one correct answer. Then practice the conversations
with a partner.

1. A: What are your plans after graduation?
I’ll probably travel / I’m probably going to travel
B: I’m not sure. to Europe. (I / probably / travel)
2. A: Jacob is missing a lot of classes!
B: the exam if he doesn’t start coming soon.
(he / definitely / fail)

3. A: Is Ricki coming to the library after class?
© National Geographic Learning
B: I think she . She likes to study at home.
(probably / come)

4. A: What’s the weather forecast for tomorrow?
B: I’m not sure, but . (maybe / it / rain)

T228 | BRIDGE TO UNIT 7

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 228 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 387 ────────

5. A: I heard Tony applied to Stanford.
B: Yeah, and . He’s an excellent student.
(he / definitely / get accepted)

6. A: Where is the taxi? My interview is in 30 minutes!
B: Don’t worry. I’m sure soon. (it / arrive)

2
VOCABULARY

A Look at the pie charts. Complete the sentences with the correct words from the box.

Americans receiving four-    Young adults (ages 18–29) that live
with their parents
year college degrees

52%
1970 Today
1970 Today    31%
10%    39%

about decrease exactly increased nearly over

exactly
1. In 1970, 90% of Americans didn’t have a college degree.
2. Today, 40% of Americans have a four-year degree.
3. The number of college graduates from 1970 to now.
4. In 1970, 30% of young adults lived with their parents.
5. Now, that number is 50%.
6. Do you think the number of college graduates will increase or in the future?

B Correct the errors in the sentences below. One sentence is correct. Then check your corrections
with a partner.
do
1. You make the dishes when they are dirty.
2. You do breakfast in the morning.
3. You pick up your friends from the train station when they arrive.
TIP
4. You make grocery shopping when you don’t have any food.
The internet is a great resource
5. You ask a reservation when you want to go to a restaurant.
for practicing reading in English.
Look up topics that interest you,
6. You drop out your classmate at home after class.
like cooking, sports, or movies,
and read short articles about
C Complete the paragraph with the words in the box.
them in English. Read for the
© National Geographic Learninggist, or main idea. Don’t look up
bike lanes get to on foot sidewalks traffic walkable
every word. It’s just for fun!

walkable
Every day, more people are moving to (1.) neighborhoods. They want
to get around (2.) or by using one of the city’s many (3.)
to ride to work. The best neighborhoods don’t have very much (4.) , and
they have wide (5.) that are in good condition for pedestrians. That makes
it easier for people to (6.) where they need to go safely.

BRIDGE TO UNIT 7 | T229

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 229 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 388 ────────

D Circle the correct words to complete the email.

Hi James,

How are you doing? Have you made a (1.) decide / decision about where you want to
(2.) apply / application to college? I don’t know where I want to go yet, but I have a few
schools under (3.) consider / consideration. I (4.) arranged / arrangement to visit some
classes at State University next week. My first (5.) choose / choice is Harvard, but I know it’s
very difficult to get accepted there. My counselor (6.) recommends / recommendation that I
apply to a couple of schools that are easier to get into as well.

Good luck!
Gina

3
LEARNING WITH OTHERS

A Write three sentences about yourself in your notebook. Use three of the sentence starters below.
My name is . . .    My degree will be in . . .

I am a student at . . .    I have experience working in . . .

I am going to graduate in . . .    I enjoy . . .

B Then work in a group of three students. Take turns reading your sentences. Each of your two
partners should ask a question about your sentences. One student will record the responses. When
everyone is done, share some of the things you learned about your classmates with the class.

I am a student at City University.

How long have you been
a student here?

4
WRITING

A Interview a classmate to find out the information below. Then write five sentences or more
predicting what your partner will do in the future. Include predictions about the near future (soon,
this year, etc.) and predictions about the distant future (someday, eventually, in ten years, etc.).
Then read your predictions to your partner and discuss them.

• School    • School activities
• Favorite subject(s)    • Other abilities
• Graduation date    • Work experience (what / where / when)

© National Geographic Learning

What do you do at school?
I’m on the baseball team!

T230 | BRIDGE TO UNIT 7

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 230 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 389 ────────

BRIDGE TO UNIT 10

1 GRAMMAR

A Write statements that are true for you about the topics below. Then read your statements to a
partner. Your partner will agree or disagree, using so, too, either, and neither.
1. big parties
2. speak French
3. study every day
4. watch movies
5. go out on weekends
6. ride the bus to school

I don’t like big parties.    I like to go to big parties.

Me neither. They’re too noisy.    Really? I don’t! They’re too noisy.

B Match the sentence parts.
b    a. I study and go to bed early.
1. After I eat breakfast,
2. Before we have a party,
b. I brush my teeth.
3. When I have an important exam,
c. he or she is an adult.
4. Before Ellen goes to stay at a friend’s house,
d. she buys a small gift.
5. When a person turns 18,
e. I send a thank-you note.
6. After I get a gift,
f. we clean the house.

TIP
Time clauses (as in the sentences above) show the order of two or more events. These examples show that when
the time clause comes first, you must put a comma before the main clause.

C Complete the story with the simple past or the past continuous forms of the verbs in parentheses.
were eating
We (1. eat) in a restaurant when suddenly the lights
(2. go) out. Then, there (3. be) a loud noise
in the kitchen. When the police (4. arrive) , everyone
(5. scream) and feeling very scared. When the lights
(6. come) on again, a man (7. lie) on the
floor, and he (8. bleed) .

D Correct the adverb errors in the sentences. Two of the sentences are correct.
quickly
1. The child ate quickly the bread.
^
© National Geographic Learning
2. She smiled happily at her father.
3. The horse ran fastly through the forest.
4. When the princess answered correctly the riddle, the witch disappeared.
5. The man seemed differently from other men.
6. The students sang the song very goodly.
7. The queen spoke eloquently to the people.
8. The spider climbed easily the wall.

BRIDGE TO UNIT 10 | T231

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 231 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 390 ────────

E Work with a partner. Take turns asking and answering questions with the present perfect and How
long, using the words below.
How long have you studied English?
1. study English
2. know your teacher
3. live in this city
4. live in your house or apartment
5. go to this school
6. have the same hairstyle

How long have you
studied English?

I’ve studied English
for four years.

F Use the words in parentheses and the present perfect or simple past to complete the conversations.
Have you ever been to Mexico City
1. A: (ever / be / Mexico City) ?
B: No, I haven’t. But I really want to go!
2. A: (never / do / karaoke) . Is it fun?
B: Wow, you’ve never done it? It’s so much fun! We should go tonight.
3. A: When did Li move to Shanghai?
B: (she / move / six years ago) .
4. A: How long has Kei worked here?
B: (he / work / ten years) .
5. A: Have you finished your project yet?
B: Yes, (already / finish / it) . Now it’s time for dinner!
6. A: (get / good grade / on the exam) ?
B: Yes, I got the best grade in the class!
7. A: (how long / work / at City Corp) ?
B: I worked at City Corp for 15 years! But now, I’m a teacher.

2
VOCABULARY

A Work with a partner to create sentences using the collocations from the chart. Some words can be
used more than once.

get    friends
© National Geographic Learning
have    a good time
invite    a party
plan    together
throw

T232 | BRIDGE TO UNIT 10

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 232 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 391 ────────

I get together with my friends on the weekend.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

B Complete the sentences with the correct forms of the words in the box.

compete gather participate perform prize race take place tradition

gather
1. To means to come together in a group.
2. A is something that you get when you win a game or other competition.
3. Customs or ways of doing something for a long time are called .
4. When something happens, it .
5. A person who tries to be the best in a game or other activity is a .
6. A person who sings, dances, or plays music in front of others is a .
7. A is an activity, like running or swimming, where you try to be the fastest.
8. To do something with other people is to .

TIP
Learn new words in families—look for related word forms and make a note of them in your
vocabulary notebook. Practice with the words from B. Complete the chart with the word forms.

Verb Noun Noun (person)
competition
participant
perform

C Add letters to complete the verbs and adjectives often used when telling stories. Then work with a
partner to write the part of speech and a definition for each one.
e v r
1. cl e
2. re is i
3. ncr d le
4. uc e d
5. di o er
6. t e p a e

© National Geographic LearningClever is an adjective. It means intelligent.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

BRIDGE TO UNIT 10 | T233

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 233 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 392 ────────

D Match the words in the box with their opposites.

demanding dull exhausting hazardous rewarding well paid

exhausting
1. relaxing    4. safe
2. unsatisfying    5. easy
3. exciting    6. badly paid

3
WRITING

A Write a paragraph (about ten sentences) about a job that interests you. Be sure to answer these
questions:

• What is the job?
• What training, skills, or personal qualities do you need for this job?
• What are the advantages and disadvantages of the job?

4
COMMUNICATION

A Read the statements and check (✓) Yes or No. Then compare and discuss your answers with a
partner. Give your partner some tips.

Yes No
1. I like talking about my feelings in English.
2. I feel nervous when giving a presentation in English.
3. I am happy to speak in small groups in class.
4. I feel uncomfortable expressing myself in English in front of the class.
5. Speaking with a classmate helps me improve my English.
6. Sometimes it is difficult for me to think of the correct words to use in English.

I feel nervous when giving
a presentation in English.

Me, too! But I feel less nervous when I
practice my presentation a lot before I give
it. Maybe next time we should practice our
presentations together!

© National Geographic Learning

T234 | BRIDGE TO UNIT 10

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 234 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 393 ────────

UNIT 1 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Unscramble the words to make statements and questions. Two of the items can be statements or
questions. Be sure to use the correct capitalization and punctuation.
When did you meet your best friend?
1. best / meet / when / friend / you / did / your
2. is / right / Monica / now / studying
3. taking / English / you / this / are / term
4. do / what / this / did / weekend / you
5. your / lesson / when / tennis / is
6. meets / Fridays / this / on / class

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Make questions with the words in the box. Use the simple present, present continuous, or simple
past.

class / meet / at 6 pm grade / get / on the test prepare for / an exam / now
classes / take / this term live / at home / last year usually / have dinner

classes are you taking this term
1. What ?
2. [Yes / No] ?
3. [Yes / No] ?
4. When ?
5. What ?
6. [Yes / No] ?

3
SPEAKING

A Work with two classmates to create conversations. Person A is new in the neighborhood,
Person B is Person A’s neighbor, and Person C is with Person B. Choose a role. Then introduce
yourself and ask each other questions using at least three words and phrases from the box below.
Switch roles until everyone has role-played Person A, B, and C.

classmate girlfriend / boyfriend nice to meet you this is . . .
coworker introduce take a class work together
© National Geographic Learning
Hi, my name    Nice to meet you both. So, Karina,
is Olivia! how do you know Carlos?
Welcome to the neighborhood, Olivia!
I’m Carlos, and this is Karina.

UNIT 1 REVIEW | T235

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 235 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 394 ────────

4 WRITING

A Choose two people you know. They can be friends, neighbors, classmates, or coworkers. Write
sentences to explain how you know each person.

5
EXAM PREPARATION: LISTENING

A Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and a question after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 1

1. At what time is this conversation
4. Who is Yukiko?
happening?
a. A new student. c. Chris’s girlfriend.
a. 11:45. b. 12:00. c. 12:30. d. 12:45.
b. Mr. Morris’s daughter. d. A new colleague.
2. What does the teacher ask the students to do?
5. Why does the speaker like yoga?
a. Ask questions from the list.
a. It’s fun. c. It’s too hard.
b. Make a list of questions.
b. It’s relaxing. d. She goes with
her boyfriend.
c. Choose a day and time to take the
speaking exam.
6. Who went to Blue Dragon last night?
d. Bring food and drink to class.
a. Erica, Mike, Maria, and Maria’s parents.
3. Who is Paula?
b. Erica, Maria, and Mike’s parents.
a. Miriam’s sister.    c. Miriam’s friend.
c. Erica and her roommate.
b.    d. Felipe’s friend.
Felipe’s girlfriend.
d. Maria and her boyfriend.

B Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and three questions after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 2

1. Who are the man and woman?
4. How do these people know each other?
a. They are boyfriend and girlfriend.
a. They’re going out. c. They’re friends.

b. They are colleagues.
b. They’re classmates. d. They just met.

c. They are students.
5. What kind of class is the woman taking?
d. They are next-door neighbors.
a. Spanish. c. History.

b. English. d. Chemistry.
2. What class is the woman NOT taking?
a. English. c. Science.
6. How often does the man’s class meet?
b. Math. d. Computer science.
a. Every day. c. Every weekend.

© National Geographic Learningb. Four days a week. d. Once a week.
3. What time does the man have swim practice?
a. 6:00 in the evening.

b. 6:00 in the morning.

c. 7:00 in the morning.

d. 3:00 in the afternoon.

T236 | UNIT 1 REVIEW

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 236 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 395 ────────

UNIT 2 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Find the error in each sentence in the usage of comparatives, superlatives, and vocabulary from the
unit. Write the correct word(s).
healthier
1. Which is healthyer, eating eggs or eating a donut for breakfast?
2. El Arbol is oldest restaurant in the city.
3. My father likes bake fish, not fried fish.
4. Chili peppers are spicy than tomatoes.
5. Miguel speaks English more good than Magaly.
6. My grandma makes the better food I have ever had!

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Write questions with which in the comparative form in your notebook. Use the words in the box.

delicious friendly funny healthy interesting popular relaxing romantic trendy

Which is more delicious, cake or ice cream?

B With a partner, take turns asking and answering the questions you wrote in A. Give additional
information to support your opinion.

Which is more delicious,
cake or ice cream?
Ice cream! Cake is
usually too dry for me.

3
SPEAKING

A Read about three food trucks. With a partner, talk about the similarities and differences among the
foods. Say whether you like or dislike the foods, and whether or not you think the food from the
trucks is healthy. Use comparatives, superlatives, and vocabulary from the unit.

Pete’s Meats: grilled hamburgers, spicy ribs, hot roast beef sandwiches, and more
Snack Attack: desserts, chips, French fries, fruit salad, coffee and tea, smoothies
World on Wheels: food from Greece, Italy, Japan, Brazil, Peru, and the United States

Pete’s Meats has delicious    But, which truck is
hamburgers! Yes, their food is tastier    healthier?
© National Geographic Learning
than Snack Attack.

B Imagine there is a food truck outside your school. What kind of food do you want it to have?
Tell your partner.
I want the food truck to have
tacos and quesadillas.    I love Mexican food!
Why?

UNIT 2 REVIEW | T237

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 237 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 396 ────────

4 WRITING

A Write a short article for a travel website about the food in your country. In the article, tell readers
about the best food or foods to eat in your city or town. Use the vocabulary from the box below, as
well as comparative and superlative adjective forms.

delicious fried juicy salty spicy sweet taste tasty

Paiche is my favorite fish. It’s from the Amazon, but you can try it when you visit Lima, too. . .

5
EXAM PREPARATION: READING

A Choose the best answer for each question or the best word(s) to complete each sentence.
1. May I have the fish?
4. Do we have any sweet food?
a. grilled
a. It doesn’t have any.

b. sweet
b. Yes, we have cookies and candy.

c. awful
c. Yes, we have potato chips.

d. vegetable
d. No, we only have ice cream.

2. What word means the opposite of reduce?
5. My mother’s chicken soup is
in the world.
a. Increase.
a. the bestest
b. Eliminate.
b. the goodest
c. Benefit.
c. better than
d. Plenty.
d. the best
3. “Let’s have Thai food,” he said. I love Thai
food, so I said, “ ”
6. Do you have any bad habits?
a. Great idea!
a. No, I never do my homework.

b. I don’t really want to.
b. I’m on a diet.

c. How about having Thai food?
c. I really like fruits and vegetables.

d. Can you look at something for me?
© National Geographic Learningd. Yes, I eat a lot of fast food.

T238 | UNIT 2 REVIEW

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 238 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 397 ────────

UNIT 3 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Circle the correct form of each verb.
1. Juana believes / is believing in her intuition about things.
2. This year, she is studying / studies English in Toronto.
3. She knows / is knowing it’s a good idea to learn English in another country.
4. Juana makes / is making friends with English speakers this term.
5. She appreciates / is appreciating the opportunity to study abroad.

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Unscramble the words to make questions. Compare your questions with a partner’s. Then ask and
answer the questions with your partner. Use your imagination.
Do you think you are lucky?
1. you / lucky / think / are / do / you
2. figure / you / English / can / out / homework / the
3. proof / life / of / on / Mars / there / is
4. meet / best / did / by / your / friend / chance / you
5. like / do / the / you / lottery / play / to
6. believe / the moon / do / affects / people’s / you / behavior

Do you think you are lucky?

I think so. A lot of good
things happen to me!

3
SPEAKING

A Think of an unsolved mystery that you know about. You may use a mystery from the unit, such
as why people dream, the moon’s effect on behavior, the Nazca lines, or the Marfa Lights. Write
some notes about what you know. Tell a partner everything you know about the mystery.

B Now think of some questions about things you don’t know about your mystery. Discuss the
questions with your partner. Use the modals from the box in your answers.

can’t could may might

Do children dream more
© National Geographic Learningthan adults?
They might.
That could be true.

UNIT 3 REVIEW | T239

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 239 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 398 ────────

4
WRITING

A Write about the mystery you talked about in Speaking. Include all of the information you know,
questions you have, and possible answers. Use modals in your answers.

5
EXAM PREPARATION: LISTENING

A Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and a question after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 3

1. What does the boy mean when he says, “It’s
4. Why was Amelia Earhart famous?
a mystery to me”?
a. She was a scientist and a historian.
a. The boy has an explanation.
b. She solved an important mystery.
b. The boy’s notebook is still lost.
c. She was the first woman to fly across the
c. The boy doesn’t know why his notebook
Atlantic Ocean alone.
was in the refrigerator.
d. She was the first woman to fly around the
d. The boy needs to do more research.
world alone.

2. What are the people doing?
5. What is NOT a reason why chocolate is
good for you?
a. Playing a card game.
a. It can help you live longer.
b. Cooking dinner.
b. It makes you happy.
c. Buying a birthday card for a friend.
c. It can give you more energy.
d. Doing research.
d. It can help you sleep better.
3. Why does the woman think the watch is
lucky?
6. Does the woman believe that the Loch Ness
Monster is real?
a. Because it helped the man clean his
room.
a. Yes, because there is photographic
proof.
b. Because it helped the man’s grandfather.
b. Yes, because her friend thinks that it
c. Because the man found money on the
is real.
street while wearing it.
c. No, because photographs could
d. Because it cost a lot of money.
be fake.

d. No, because she’s never been to
© National Geographic LearningLoch Ness.

T240 | UNIT 3 REVIEW

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 240 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 399 ────────

B Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and three questions after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 4

1. What are the man and woman talking
4. What is one reason the man thinks he is
about?
lucky?

a. The lottery.
a. He has a lot of good friends.

b. Lucky numbers.
b. He has a great job.

c. Things they buy.
c. He is rich.

d. The future.
d. He won the lottery.

2. What does the man say about
5. Why does the woman think that the man has
himself?
a nice apartment?

a. He doesn’t want to win.
a. He is lucky.

b. He might be lucky.
b. He has a lot of friends.

c. He isn’t lucky.
c. He goes to a good school.

d. He could win.
d. He’s smart about how he spends money.

3. Why won’t the man win?
6. What is one way in which the man is smart?
a. He already won.
a. He only lives in nice apartments.

b. He didn’t buy a lottery ticket.
b. He doesn’t go to expensive restaurants
often.
c. He lost the lottery ticket.
c. He spends a lot of money on clothes.
d. The woman doesn’t want him to.
d. He got accepted to ten colleges.

6
EXAM PREPARATION: READING

A Read the text. Then read each question and circle the correct answer.

Fall Term Courses

Class name: Mysteries in Our World
Schedule: Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays, 10:00–11:00 am
Teacher: Professor Williams

Class Description: In this class, students learn about a number of famous unsolved
mysteries in science and history. They read about the mysteries, the theories about them, and
the possible explanations, and discuss them in class. At the end of the term, students do a
research project on a mystery that they choose and give a presentation to the class about the
mystery and possible explanations for it.

1. Who teaches this class?
3. What is the main topic of the class?
a. The students.
a. American history. c. Unsolved mysteries.
© National Geographic Learning
b. Professor Williams.
b. Natural science. d. Data.
c. Mysteries in Our World
4. What do students do at the end of the
course?
d. It does not say.

a. Write an essay.
2. How often does the class meet?
b. Research a mystery and give a
a. Once a week.
presentation.
b. Every day.
c. Read about mysteries.
c. Twice a week.

d. Solve a mystery.
d. Three times a week.

UNIT 3 REVIEW | T241

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 241 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 400 ────────

UNIT 4 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Unscramble the words to make sentences. Use correct capitalization and punctuation.
A lot of my classmates live at home.
1. my / a lot / classmates / live / of / at home
2. what / disagree / I / I / see / you / still / mean / but
3. my / neighbors / pets / many / have / of
4. none / classmates / having / school uniforms / of / my / like
5. over / 75% / my / of / work / part-time / classmates

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Use the words below to ask your classmates questions about trends in families today. Interview at
least three classmates, and take notes.
Sofia, how old were you
1. age / stop living with your parents    4. age / start working
when you stopped living
with your parents?
2. number / siblings (brothers and sisters)    5. age / get a cell phone
3. age / get married (past or future)
Eighteen.

B With a partner, discuss the trends you found. Use the following quantity expressions to present the
statistics: all (of), most (of), a lot of, half of, some (of), and none of.

It seems like most of our classmates moved
out of their parents’ houses between the    Yes, but some people still
ages of 18 and 22.    live with their parents.

3
SPEAKING

A Imagine you and two partners are in a fashion design competition. Together, decide on a type of
outfit to design (for example, a suit or a casual outfit). Then do the following:

1. On your own, draw a picture of your idea.
I love your casual outfit! It seems
perfect for Fridays at the office.
2. When you and your partners finish your
I’m not sure about that. I think
drawings, share them with each other.
it’s too casual to wear to work.
Explain what style your design is. Use
fashion vocabulary and language for
agreeing and disagreeing.

3. Give your opinions about your partners’ designs and listen to your partners’ opinions of your design.

© National Geographic Learning
B Present one of your designs to another group. Ask for the other group’s opinions of it. Then listen to
their presentation and give your opinion.

4 WRITING

A In your notebook, write about the outfit you designed in Speaking A. Then write your classmates’
opinions of it. Use fashion vocabulary.

T242 | UNIT 4 REVIEW

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 242 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 401 ────────

5
EXAM PREPARATION: LISTENING

A Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and a question after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 5

1. What event is the man going to?
4. What is NOT a reason the woman gives to
buy red clothes this year?
a. A job interview.
a. Red clothes are inexpensive.
b. A wedding.
b. The color looks great on almost everyone.
c. A birthday party.
c. All of the biggest brands are using red.
d. A clothing sale.
d. Fashion influencers think red is stylish.
2. Where does this man work?
5. Why does Emma’s mom say she can’t get
a. In a restaurant. c. In a school.
the shoes?
b. At a bank. d. He doesn’t work.
a. They look very comfortable.
3. What do some people say against the new
b. They’re unique.
electric buses?
c. They are too expensive.
a. The city should spend money on
d. The brand is very stylish.
education instead of the new buses.

b. The city had better not get rid of the
6. What is the problem with the woman’s
old buses.
clothes?

c. The city ought to spend more money on
a. They’re too expensive.
the new buses.
b. They’re not stylish enough.
d. All of the above.
c. They’re not warm enough.

d. They’re too casual.

B Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and three questions after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 6

1. What does the woman ask the man?
4. How many languages are spoken
on Earth?
a. She asks about his new school.
a. 70. c. 7,000.
b. She asks about his new friends.
b. 700. d. 70,000.
c. She asks for fashion advice.
5. Which of these is NOT one of the five most
d. She asks what his classmates think
common languages?
about jeans.
a. English.
2. Why does the woman ask about a
b. Spanish.
dress code?

c. Mandarin Chinese.
a. The man is wearing casual clothes.
© National Geographic Learning
d. Japanese.
b. She wants to go to the man’s school.

c. The man is wearing a shirt and tie.
6. What percentage of English speakers are
learning English as a second language?
d. She dislikes the dress code.
a. 10 percent. c. 50 percent.
3. How many students dislike the dress code?
b. 30 percent. d. 70 percent.
a. All of them. c. Half of them.

b. Some of them. d. None of them.

UNIT 4 REVIEW | T243

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 243 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 402 ────────

UNIT 5 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Unscramble the words to make statements and questions.
I’d like to make an appointment with the doctor
1. the doctor / make / an appointment / with / to / like / I’d .
2. mind / helping / you / me / do / would / the dishes ?
3. meet / at / 2:30 / we / could ?
4. very / from / is / school / far / here / the ?
5. easy / get / around / it’s / on / to / foot .
6. to / calling / reschedule / our / I’m / meeting .

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Use the question words and actions below to write questions about chores and errands. Write
answers that are true for you. Then ask and answer the questions with a partner.

How often Where do laundry go grocery shopping
When Who do the dishes sweep

Who does the dishes
in your house? Sometimes I do, but usually
my husband does them.

3
SPEAKING

A In your notebook, make a list of chores and errands you often do, and how much you would pay for
a service to do each task. Then ask and answer questions about the tasks and prices with a partner.

What chores and errands
do you often do? I do laundry, I make dinner,
and I vacuum the floor.
How much do you want to pay
for help with the laundry? I can pay
$20 a week.
© National Geographic Learning
B Role-play. Imagine that you are calling an errand and housekeeping service. Your partner works for
the service. Ask for help with your chores and errands. Then switch roles.

Hello, thanks for calling Handy
Helper! How can I help you?    We can help you. Which errands?

Hi! I’m very busy, and I need    Well, I need help with my groceries.
help with my errands.    Can you go grocery shopping for me?

T244 | UNIT 5 REVIEW

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 244 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 403 ────────

4
WRITING

A Make a list of ideas to improve your city for commuters. Consider questions like: How walkable is
your city? Is there easy access to public transportation? Are there different transportation choices
available to commuters?

B Read the example sentences below. Use your ideas from A and the vocabulary from Lesson B to
write a short article about improvements for commuters in your city.
In my city, there are many ways to improve public transportation for commuters. First, my city has a lot of

trains that go to a lot of different places all over the city, but these trains are very slow. I think the first
thing the city should do is buy newer, faster trains . . .

5
EXAM PREPARATION: READING

A Circle the correct answer.
1. Why are you running late?
4. Cyclists are
a. I’m stuck in traffic.
a. people that ride bikes.

b. I need the exercise.
b. people that live near you.

c. I’m taking a break.
c. a person that rides a bike.

d. I don’t really have time.
d. trains that go underground.

2. Marcos gets exercise on his commute.
5. Do you need to run any errands today?
He
a. Yes, I need to make a salad.
a. catches a bus to work.
b. Yes, I need to do the dishes.
b. takes the train to work.
c. Yes, that works great.
c. rides his bike to work.
d. Yes, I need to go grocery shopping and
go to the ATM.
d. drives to work.

3. Which items are chores?
6. Could you sweep the floor, please?
a. Making a list, making a dinner
a. Yes, I can’t.
reservation, taking the dog for a walk.
b. Sure, no problem.
b. Doing the laundry, vacuuming the rug,
c. The floor is dirty.
sweeping the floor.
d. Sorry. I’d like to, but I can.
c. Sweeping the floor, rescheduling an
appointment, dropping off a friend.

d. Taking a break, going grocery shopping,
making an appointment.
© National Geographic Learning

UNIT 5 REVIEW | T245

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 245 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 404 ────────

UNIT 6 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Use the words to write predictions with be going to and will.
Ernesto is going to fail the test.
1. Ernesto / fail / test
2. his parents / retire / soon
3. my sister / have / a lot of money
4. Leti / be accepted / into law school
5. we / travel / to Europe / someday

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Your company is going to send you to San Francisco to take an intensive English course. You
are nervous about going, so you call a coworker who went to the same school last year.
Ask him or her six to eight questions about what you think you’ll experience. Then switch roles.

Hi, Susan, it’s Amanda. I am going to take
English classes at the School of English in San
Francisco. You went there last year, right? Hi, Amanda! Yes, I did. You’ll have a
great time. What can I tell you about it?

I’m nervous about going.
Will the classes be difficult?

3 SPEAKING

A Read the information about these recent college graduates. Then, with a partner, predict what each
person will do in the future.

Name: Marco
Name: Richard    Name: Naomi

College: City College    College: State University
College: College of the Arts

Major: Business    Major: Computer Science
Major: Visual Arts
Communications
Grades: Good    Grades: Excellent
Grades: OK

Work Experience: Hair Stylist    Work Experience: Computer    Work Experience:
Lab Assistant    Newspaper Photographer

I think Richard is going to be his own boss and
© National Geographic Learning
own a hair salon. But he studied business communications,
so I think he’ll work in marketing.

4 WRITING

A In your notebook, write about your plans for the future. Include plans that you have already made,
as well as predictions. Use be going to and will.

T246 | UNIT 6 REVIEW

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 246 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 405 ────────

5
EXAM PREPARATION: LISTENING

A Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and a question after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 7

1. What is going to happen tomorrow?
4. What is the man’s problem?
a. Nothing.
a. He lost his job.

b. The woman is going to go out to dinner
b. He’s worried he won’t get into college.
with friends.
c. He failed a big English test.
c. Friends are going to come over for dinner.
d. He’s applying for a new job.
d. The man is going to work late.
5. What decision does the woman have
to make?
2. What does Marta decide to do?
a. Where she will travel.
a. Help Jiro create a resume.

b. What city she will live in.
b. Apply for an internship.

c. What her new job will be.
c. Find an opportunity for Jiro.

d. If she should take time off to travel.
d. Create her resume.

3. Why is Diana’s brother unhappy?
6. Why is Elena upset?
a. He got a new job in finance.
a. She lost her job.

b. He lives with his parents.
b. Her mother lost her job.

c. His car was stolen.
c. She can’t find an internship.

d. He’s moving to a new apartment.
d. She can’t take time off of work.

B Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and three questions after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 8

1. What is Paloma going to do after graduation?
4. What is Bruno going to do?
a. Take time off.
a. He’s going to quit his job.

b. Work at a full-time job.
b. He’s going to graduate from college.

c. Do an internship.
c. He’s going to start a company.

d. Visit a museum.
d. He’s going to buy a bike.

2. Why does Gustavo say, “I’m sorry to hear
5. Which statement about Cycle Recycle is true?
that.”?
a. People can use it right now.
a. Paloma didn’t get
c. Gustavo doesn’t like
b. People buy brand-new bikes.
any of the jobs she
talking to Paloma.
c. The bikes are made of recycled material.
applied for.
d. Paloma is excited
d. People sell used bikes.
b. Paloma got an
to move to Mexico
6. Why can’t Nacho buy a bike through Cycle
internship.
© National Geographic LearningCity.
Recycle right now?
3. What are Gustavo’s plans?
a. The company is not ready yet.
a. He’s going to travel.
b. He lives far away from Bruno.
b. He’s going to do an internship.
c. He does not have enough money.
c. He’s going to work.
d. He needs to buy a car instead.
d. He’s going to start a company.

UNIT 6 REVIEW | T247

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 247 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 406 ────────

6
EXAM PREPARATION: READING

A Read the text. Then choose the correct answer for each item.
Humans need bees. Bees move pollen, a powder produced by plants, from one plant to
another. This allows the plants to grow. Farmers use bees to help produce crops, like corn.
However, many bees are dying, and scientists aren’t sure why. If this continues, it will create a
problem not only for bees but for people, too.
There are a few possible reasons why the population of bees is decreasing. Pesticides are part
of the problem. These chemicals keep insects from eating plants, but they also hurt helpful insects
like bees. Bees are also getting sick. This may happen because the diet that humans feed them
isn’t very healthy or because pests, creatures that are annoying or harmful, are giving them viruses.
Bees are such an important part of farming. Without them, food supplies will be in danger.
Since we need bees so badly, we need to protect them. We must ask our governments to stop
pesticide use and develop medicines that will protect bees from getting sick. If we don’t, we won’t
be able to save bees or the food on our tables.

1. The word harmful in paragraph 2 means
4. This article is mainly about

a. bad; hurts others. c. confusing.
a. what pollen is and why it’s important.

b. helpful. d. sick.
b. the history of bees.

c. how farmers grow plants.
2. According to the reading, why are bees
important to humans?
d. the problem of bee populations
decreasing.
a. They help plants grow by producing pollen.

b. They keep harmful pests away from plants.
5. The author’s primary purpose is to
c. They help crops on farms grow.
a. explain how bees help farmers.
d. They allow farmers to stop using
pesticides.
b. convince people to protect bees.

c. show the disadvantages of pesticides.
3. Humans can help bees by
d. show examples of pests.
a. using pesticides.

b. leaving bees alone.

c. creating medicines to stop bees from
getting sick.

d. helping bees move pollen.

© National Geographic Learning

T248 | UNIT 6 REVIEW

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 248 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 407 ────────

UNIT 7 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Unscramble the words to make statements and questions. Use correct capitalization and
punctuation. Some items have more than one correct answer.
We put on costumes before we went to the party. /
Before we went to the party, we put on costumes.
1. we / before / the party / we / put on / went to / costumes
2. is / a / party / Vera / throwing / Saturday / on
3. day / love to go / but / busy / I’m / I’d / that
4. to / festival / go / do / with / the / me / you / to / want
5. after / the / there / a party / graduation ceremony / is
6. when / gift / a / you / say / receive / thank you

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Student A: Imagine that you work in the office of culture and tourism in your country, and you want
to make some improvements to a holiday or festival. Consider the items from the list.

Student B: You are a journalist interviewing Student A about the changes to the festival or holiday.
Ask six to eight questions on how he or she will improve it, using the items from the list.

Things to consider:

1. Location    3. Date    5. Food    7. Publicity
2. Length    4. Activities    6. Safety    8. Other ideas?

So, you want to make some    Good idea! Now,
changes to the Festival of Lights? Yes, I think it should be three days long so    what do you think . . .
more tourists will attend and participate in it.

B Switch roles. Share your ideas with the class.

3
SPEAKING

A Imagine that you and a partner are on the party committee for your class. Discuss and plan a class
party, including food, activities, and decorations.

I think we should do a    I think a costume party
guessing game.    would be so much fun!
I’m not sure about that. How about
So do I. Let’s see . . .    we have a formal party instead?

© National Geographic Learning
B Describe your plan from A to another pair. Then, if possible, do one of the party activities.

4 WRITING

A In your notebook, write about the holiday or festival that you wanted to improve in Question Formulation
A. Explain the purpose of the celebration, when and where it is, and what people usually do. Then
explain the changes you would like to make and why they will improve the holiday or festival.

UNIT 7 REVIEW | T249

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 249 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 408 ────────

5
EXAM PREPARATION: LISTENING

A Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and a question after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 9

1. What is the woman going to do next?
4. What will the woman probably do tomorrow
night?
a. Go to her friend’s apartment.
a. Make a reservation.
b. Buy candles.
b. Call back the restaurant.
c. Pick up the cake.
c. Have dinner at Mistral Restaurant.
d. Decorate the apartment.
d. Work late.
2. How does Esteban feel?
5. Who has tickets to the festival?
a. Angry.
a. Both the man and the woman do.
b. Confused.
b. Only the woman does.
c. Sad.
c. Only the man does.
d. Happy.
d. Neither of them do.
3. What problem does the man have?
6. What does the man suggest the woman do?
a. He doesn’t know how to cook.
a. Go to the birthday party.
b. He doesn’t eat meat.
b. Stay home and relax.
c. He doesn’t know anyone at the barbecue.
c. Go to dinner with her friend.
d. He doesn’t have time to go to the barbecue.
d. Try to go to dinner and the party.

B Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and three questions after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 10

1. What doesn’t the woman like?
4. What will happen to the woman soon?
a. Parties. c. Nightclubs.
a. She will graduate.

b. Barbecues. d. Loud music.
b. She will move.

c. She will get a job.
2. What happens to the man after he goes to
a nightclub?
d. She wants to travel with friends.
a. His head hurts.
5. What does the woman want to do?
b. His ears hurt.
a. Graduate from college.
c. His throat hurts.
b. Visit a friend in Bogotá.
d. He feels tired.
c. Go to a music festival.
3. Where are the man and woman going to be
d. Save money for a trip.
on Friday night?
6. Why can’t the man go with her?
a. At a nightclub.
a. It’s too expensive.
b. At a barbecue.
© National Geographic Learningb. He’s visiting his parents in July.
c. At a birthday party.
c. He has to work.
d. At a friend’s house.
d. He doesn’t like music festivals.

T250 | UNIT 7 REVIEW

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 250 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 409 ────────

UNIT 8 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Find the error with an adverb or the past continuous in each sentence. Rewrite each sentence so
that it is correct.
Were you telling that story?
1. Were you tell that story?
2. Ken does eating dinner when I called him.
3. When I’m nervous, I speak quick.
4. She didn’t do good on the math test.
5. Fairy tales are unusually stories.
6. They wasn’t reading when I came in the room.

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Your friend watched a great movie on TV last night, but you missed it. Write six questions about the
movie below.

B Find a partner who watched a movie that you did not. Ask questions about the movie, and listen to
your partner’s answers. Switch roles.

What movie did    Who were the main
you see? I saw The Rise of    characters in it? Rey, Finn, Kylo
Skywalker.    Ren, and Poe.

3
SPEAKING

A In groups of four, write a story together sentence by sentence. The first student thinks of a title, says
it, and writes it down. The next student adds the first sentence of the story, and so on. Continue for
at least three rounds so you have a total of eleven sentences, plus a title. Don’t forget the ending!

The Golden    Suddenly, he heard
Light One day, a boy was    a loud noise. Next, he ran
walking through the woods.    to the . . .

© National Geographic Learning
B Share your story with the class.

4 WRITING

A Think of a movie or a book that had an ending you did not like. In your notebook, write a summary
of the story, but change the ending to one you think is better. Share it with a partner.

UNIT 8 REVIEW | T251

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 251 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 410 ────────

5
EXAM PREPARATION: READING

A Circle the correct answer.
1. What type of story is usually realistic?
a. A story based on something true.

b. A fairy tale.

c. A fantasy story.

d. None of the above.

2. Were you working when I called last night?
a. Yes, I am.

b. Yes, I were.

c. Yes, I wasn’t.

d. Yes, I was.

3. Which of these situations is unpredictable?
a. Hyeon exercises every day.

b. We never know what time Rico will arrive.

c. The good guy wins.

d. The train is always on time.

4. Which sentence does not describe a character?
a. Emilia is really clever and brave.

b. Thomas is arrogant. He always thinks he’s right.

c. Florida is beautiful. It’s a great place to live.

d. Mark is too violent.

5. I when suddenly there was a knock at the door.
a. watching TV

b. watch TV

c. was watching TV

d. will watch TV

© National Geographic Learning

T252 | UNIT 8 REVIEW

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 252 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 411 ────────

UNIT 9 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Find the error in the use of the present perfect in each sentence. Rewrite each sentence so that it
is correct.
How long have you worked here?
1. How long have you work here?
2. How long does Patricia had her driver’s license?
3. I’ve been a nurse since twelve years.
4. Has they passed the exam yet?
5. Have ever you traveled to Kyoto?
6. I have worked part time for I graduated.

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A In pairs, role-play part of a job interview.
Student A: You are interviewing for a job and want to know more about the company and the
position you are applying for. Think of four to six questions to ask the employer.

Student B: You are the employer. Answer the candidate’s questions. Then switch roles.

What do you think are    Great! Will I
some of the advantages    We work as a team, so we support    have to . . .
to working here?    each other. We are also very
personable, so it’s a fun place to work.

3
SPEAKING

A Think of a job that seems very difficult to you. How could you change this job to make it better?
Think of at least six things you would like to change.

B With a partner, describe the job. Tell your partner what is difficult about the job, and what you plan
to change to make it better. Then listen as your partner describes his or her job.

First, I’ve decided to change the schedule.
Instead of 6 am to 4 pm, I want to make
the hours flexible.

4 WRITING
© National Geographic Learning
A What is your dream job? Write about it in your notebook. Explain why you want to do that job.
Describe the qualities, abilities, and experience needed to do the job.

UNIT 9 REVIEW | T253

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 253 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 412 ────────

5
EXAM PREPARATION: LISTENING

A Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and a question after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 11

1. Who has been to Japan?
4. How long has Kim worked at the bookstore?
a. Only the man. c. Both of them.
a. For four years. c. Since four years.

b. Only the woman. d. Neither of them.
b. Since she graduated. d. For four months.

2. Which item isn’t a requirement for this job?
5. Which statement is true?
a. At least two years of experience.
a. The company closed before the man’s
interview.
b. Someone with good writing skills.
b. The company was only closed for a few
c. Someone who can work independently.
days.
d. Someone who is flexible.
c. The man got fired.
3. Who is this information for?
d. The company closed after the man got the
a. New employees.
job.
b. Receptionists.
6. What does the woman say about the movie?
c. Students.
a. She wants to read the book.
d. The CEO of BeFit Industries.
b. The book is better.

c. The story was hard to follow.

d. It was unpredictable.

B Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and three questions after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 12

1. What did the man do before his interview?
4. What are these people talking about?
a. He drank coffee.
a. English homework.

b. He talked with his friend.
b. Action movies.

c. He took a walk.
c. Fairy tales.

d. He met two people.
d. Bad people.

2. Who is Teresa Perez?
5. What do old and modern fairy tales have in
common?
a. The department manager.
a. Happy endings.
b. The human resources manager.
b. Good and bad characters.
c. The man’s friend.
c. Violence.
d. The receptionist.
d. Giving advice.
3. What two qualities does the man talk about?
6. What does the woman say makes a good story?
a. Being cautious and punctual.
a. A clever hero and a stupid villain.
b. Being responsible and personable.
© National Geographic Learningb. A simple problem with an easy solution.
c. Being responsible and efficient.
c. More than one good character.
d. Being personable and flexible.
d. The difficult struggle of good overcoming
evil.

T254 | UNIT 9 REVIEW

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 254 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 413 ────────

6
EXAM PREPARATION: READING

A Read the text. Then choose the correct answer for each question.

Picnic Volunteers Needed!

The annual company picnic will be on Friday, July 24th this year. This is always a fun event where
employees and their families can relax and enjoy some good food and fun activities. This year will
be bigger than ever, so we need lots of volunteers! We hope to find three people to grill the food.
These people should have some previous experience with cooking on a grill. We also need three
judges for the baking contest and ten people to organize the activities for children. Finally, we will
need around five volunteers to serve the food and help with clean up. Volunteers will need to be
flexible since we may ask them to help with a few different jobs. Volunteers need to come to an
informational meeting on Wednesday, July 22nd from 9–11 am and need to be available on the
24th from 10 am until 3 pm. We might also ask volunteers to attend a brief meeting on Thursday
the 23rd (details to come). Volunteers will get a small gift to thank them for their help. Please don’t
volunteer if you cannot attend all of the meetings. If you would like to volunteer, please contact the
director’s executive assistant, Marisol Venegas.

1. What will happen on July 24th?
4. How many volunteers are needed?
a. There will be a party for Marisol Venegas.
a. Three.

b. There will be a cooking contest.
b. Ten.

c. There will be a meeting with the director.
c. Thirteen.

d. There will be a picnic for the company.
d. Twenty-one.

2. What adjectives do you think describe a
5. What is NOT something a volunteer will do?
good volunteer?
a. Prepare the food.
a. Unpredictable; demanding.
b. Serve the food and clean up.
b. Cautious; hazardous.
c. Buy gifts for the participants.
c. Organized; flexible.
d. Organize children’s activities.
d. Dull; courageous.
6. Which statement is true?
3. Who is Marisol Venegas?
a. The picnic is for employees only.
a. The director of the company.
b. The picnic begins at night.
b. A judge for the baking contest.
c. Volunteers do not need to go to all of the
meetings.
c. A volunteer at the company.

d. The baking contest will have three judges.
d. The director’s executive assistant.

© National Geographic Learning

UNIT 9 REVIEW | T255

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 255 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 414 ────────

UNIT 10 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Unscramble the words to make statements and questions. Use correct capitalization
and punctuation.
Would you like to leave a message for Ana?
1. leave / like / for / Ana / would / you / message / to / a
2. on / enjoy / talking / I / phone / the
3. phone / mind / I / if / borrow / your / do / you
4. need / call / I / mother / back / to / my
5. OK / made / be / it / a call / would / I / if
6. avoid / please / the movie / during / talking

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A In pairs, role-play a conversation between a professor and a student.
What is this green
button for?
Student A: You are an older professor who has never used a cell phone.
You just got one, but you do not know how to use it. Ask
You press that
Student B (your student) six to eight questions on how to use
to make a call.
the phone.
OK. How do
Student B: Answer Student A’s questions about how to use a cell phone.
I . . .

B Switch roles and do the role play again.

3
SPEAKING

A Imagine that scientists discover that cell phone use is very dangerous for the brain. Governments
worldwide agree to ban cell phones. On your own, make a list of five ways this will change your
life. Then share your list with a partner. Talk about how you will go about your daily routine without
constant access to a phone.

I usually use my phone to tell my friends if I am going to
be late. Now they are just going to have to wait for me.
Or you could try
to be on time!

B Share your ideas with another pair.
© National Geographic Learning
4 WRITING

A When is it inappropriate to use your cell phone? Are there things that people do with their cell
phones that you find rude? In your notebook, write about where and when people should not use
their phones. Explain why you feel this way.

T256 | UNIT 10 REVIEW

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 256 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 415 ────────

5
EXAM PREPARATION: LISTENING

A Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and a question after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 13

1. Where are these people?
4. What will the woman probably do?
a. In class.
a. Check if Marta is able to talk now.

b. On an airplane.
b. Take a message.

c. At home.
c. Hang up.

d. In a car.
d. Tell the man to call back later.

2. What does the man think of people talking
5. How will the woman talk with her boss?
on the phone in public places?
a. By video call.
a. It’s polite.
b. In person.
b. He doesn’t mind it.
c. By telephone.
c. It’s rude.
d. Through email.
d. He enjoys it.
6. What will the man probably do?
3. Why doesn’t the woman leave a message?
a. Send a text instead of calling.
a. The man has answered her question.
b. Not make a phone call.
b. She has called the wrong number.
c. Go outside to make the call.
c. She will call Paula later.
d. Borrow another friend’s phone.
d. She will see Paula in class.

B Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and three questions after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 14

1. What does the woman do?
4. What does the woman ask the man to do?
a. Answer her phone.
a. Make a video call.

b. Send a text.
b. Ignore his calls.

c. Call Enrique.
c. Let her use his phone.

d. Ignore a call.
d. Give her a ride.

2. What doesn’t the woman want to be?
5. Where is the woman’s phone?
a. Rude.
a. She doesn’t know.

b. Polite.
b. Her parents have it.

c. Lower.
c. It’s in her backpack.

d. Quiet.
d. It’s in the car.
© National Geographic Learning
3. What do the man and woman agree on?
6. What does the man say about texting and
driving?
a. People are addicted to their phones.
a. It’s OK.
b. Subway riders shouldn’t use phones.
b. It’s rude.
c. It’s important to use phones in public.
c. It’s dangerous.
d. Many people use their phones in a rude
way.
d. It’s banned.

UNIT 10 REVIEW | T257

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 257 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 416 ────────

UNIT 11 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Find the error in the use of used to or comparisons with (not) as . . . as in each sentence. Rewrite
the sentence correctly.
Pablo didn’t use to have a driver’s license.
1. Pablo didn’t used to have a driver’s license.
2. Did your mother used to have long hair?
3. That phone costs as much a new laptop.
4. Wei used eat a lot of sweets.
5. His phone is not as new like my phone.
6. My dad use to have a black-and-white TV.

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Imagine you are asking one of your grandparents questions about themselves and the things they
used to do. Write questions using the words below and the correct form of use to. Then answer the
questions with a partner, based on what you know about your grandparent.
Did you use to have black hair?
1. have black hair
2. wear glasses
3. go to the movies
4. live in the country or the city
5. have a telephone in the house
6. walk to school

Did your grandma use
to have black hair? No, she didn’t. She used
to have blond hair.

3
SPEAKING

A Imagine that in 50 years most human jobs are done by robots. Discuss the advantages and
disadvantages of robots doing human jobs. Do you think robots will eventually help us or hurt us?
Discuss with a partner.

B Join another pair and share your ideas.

Robots can do the boring
© National Geographic Learning
jobs nobody wants to do. I think robots should do jobs we
can’t do, like dangerous search
and rescue operations . . .

T258 | UNIT 11 REVIEW

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 258 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 417 ────────

4
WRITING

A Imagine that you really want to buy a new, expensive piece of technology. Choose one of the items
from the box below. Then, write a letter to your spouse, partner, or parents explaining why you want
this item and convincing them to let you buy it.

big screen TV fitness tracker smartphone smart watch tablet your idea:

Dear Dad, I just saw the latest fitness tracker. I really want it because . . .

5
EXAM PREPARATION: READING

A Choose the best answer for each question.
1. What does it mean if something is affordable?
4. There are two houses. The first house is
2400 square feet. It was built in 1925, and
a. You can carry it with you.
it costs $350,000. The second house is
b. It can break easily.
2400 square feet. It was built in 2014, and it
c. It is very expensive.
costs $450,000. Which statement is true?
d. It is not very expensive.
a. House 1 is as big as House 2.
2. Which option is closest in meaning to I used
b. House 1 is as old as House 2.
to live in Los Angeles?
c. House 1 is as expensive as House 2.
a. I lived in Los Angeles in the past. I don’t
d. House 1 is as affordable as House 2.
live there now.
5. “A lot of people say that public transportation
b. I started living in Los Angeles in the past,
is really reliable. But I disagree!” Why might
and I still live there.
the speaker feel like this?
c. I have always lived in Los Angeles.
a. The subway is easy to walk to.
d. I lived in Los Angeles in the past. I may
b. The buses are all brand new.
or may not live there now (it’s not clear).
c. It’s not expensive to take the bus.
3. Your parents are going to buy your younger
d. The trains are never on time.
brother his first car. Which one do you think
they will choose?
6. To find the address, to
the bottom of the page.
a. A car that is breakable and reliable.
© National Geographic Learning
a. stand up
b. A car that is practical and affordable.
b. scroll down
c. A car that is wearable and durable.
c. plug in
d. A car that is convenient and wearable.
d. charge

UNIT 11 REVIEW | T259

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 259 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 418 ────────

UNIT 12 REVIEW

1 ACCURACY PRACTICE

A Unscramble the words to make statements and questions. Use correct capitalization and punctuation.
Has Jose ever been to Guadalajara?
1. Jose / been / ever / to / has / Guadalajara
2. to / we / for / our / save / money / have / trip
3. must / passport / have / travel / to / you / a / there
4. how / have / to / long / for / train / did / you / the / wait
5. have to / don’t / print / your / you / at / boarding / home / pass
6. don’t / remember / the / I / locking / door / front

2
QUESTION FORMULATION

A Work with a partner. Imagine that you want to travel to a new place. Your partner will ask questions
to help you decide where to go. Be prepared to answer your partner’s questions, and tell him or her
what you like and where you have already been.

Do you like cities or the    What about museums?    Have you been
countryside?    Do you enjoy them?    to Spain?

Oh, I really like    No, I’d rather    Yes, I’ve already been to Madrid,
big cities. . .    be outdoors.    but I haven’t been to Barcelona.

B Switch roles and complete the exercise again.

3
SPEAKING

A With a partner, agree on a place you both would like to visit. Then plan a five-day trip there. Think of
at least five activities you can do in this place.

OK, in Buenos Aires, we can see a tango show, and we can take
a tour of La Bombonera stadium in the neighborhood of La Boca. I want to see the
Evita Peron Museum!

B Get together with another pair and describe your plans to them. Listen to their plans and be
prepared to ask questions and make comments.

We want to go to    It will be warm when we
© National Geographic Learning
Buenos Aires. What will you need    visit, so we’ll need plenty
to pack?    of shorts and T-shirts. . .

4 WRITING

A In your notebook, write about the trip you and your partner talked about in Speaking.

T260 | UNIT 12 REVIEW

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 260 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 419 ────────

5
EXAM PREPARATION: LISTENING

A Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and a question after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 15

1. What is the woman doing for the man while
3. Who has been to the new art museum?
he is away?
a. Oscar. c. Both Oscar and Karina.
a. Locking the front door, watering the
b. Karina. d. Neither (not Oscar, not Karina).
plants, and feeding the cat.
4. How does the woman feel?
b. Watering the plants, taking care of the
a. Happy. c. Sad.
cat, and picking up the mail.
b. Afraid. d. Annoyed.
c. Putting the cat in a kennel, watering the
5. What will the man probably do?
plants, and picking up the mail.
a. Go home and look for the bus pass.
d. Taking care of the mail and watering the
plants.
b. Walk to school.
2. What type of luggage does the man have?
c. Pay for the bus to school.
a. A large suitcase.
d. Buy a new bus pass.
b. A suitcase and a backpack.
6. What can be inferred about the speakers?
c. We don’t know—he doesn’t go to the
a. They travel often.
baggage claim.
b. They are afraid to fly.
d. Carry-on luggage.
c. They don’t travel much outside the
country.

d. They don’t enjoy traveling.

B Listen to the audio. You will hear a conversation and three questions after it. Circle the appropriate
answer for each question. 16

1. Who has gone camping before?
4. What is the problem?
a. They both have.
a. They have to cancel the trip.

b. The man has.
b. The apartment isn’t very nice.

c. The hotels are full.
c. Neither of them has.

d. The woman has.
d. The hotels are expensive.

2. What does the man need?
5. What is the man’s concern?
a. To know what he needs to pack.
a. He doesn’t know the people in the
apartment.
b. To know where to go camping.
b. He doesn’t want to stay in a hotel.
c. Someone to go camping with.
c. He doesn’t have a lot of money.
© National Geographic Learning
d. Money for the camping trip.
d. He likes to travel.
3. What does the woman tell the man to pack?
6. What does the woman suggest the man do?
a. Batteries.
a. Find a hotel.
b. A phone.
b. Write to the apartment owners.
c. A lighter.
c. Search the homesharing website.
d. Water.
d. Think about renting a room in someone’s
apartment.

UNIT 12 REVIEW | T261

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 261 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 420 ────────

6 EXAM PREPARATION: READING

A Read the following text. Then choose the correct answers.

Before you go . . .

• Empty the trash ✓
• Pack carry-on luggage
• Exchange some money ??? ➔ CHECK ON THIS!
• Check in online ✓
• Get travel insurance ✓
• Water the plants
• Don’t forget your passport!

1. Fernando is traveling today. Look at his to-do list. Which sentence is correct?
a. He has already gotten travel insurance and checked in online.

b. He has not emptied the trash.

c. He has not checked in online yet.

d. He has already gotten travel insurance, but he hasn’t checked in online.

2. Fernando has not yet finished all of the items on his checklist. Which activity does he have to do
before he leaves for the airport?

a. Forget his passport.

b. Pack his carry-on bag.

c. Speak to a flight attendant about changing his seat.

d. None of the above.

3. “Exchange some money” is on Fernando’s list. What is the status of this?
a. He has already exchanged some money.

b. He is going to exchange some money at the airport.

c. He needs to find out where he should exchange some money.

d. He isn’t going to exchange any money.

4. Has Fernando watered the plants yet?
a. No, he isn’t.

b. No, he won’t.

c. Yes, he has.
© National Geographic Learning
d. No, he hasn’t.

5. What is very important for Fernando to remember?
a. His plants.

b. His passport.

c. The trash.

d. His boarding pass.

T262 | UNIT 12 REVIEW

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 262 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 421 ────────

PROCESS WRITING 1

A Complete the paragraph with the verbs from the box.

didn’t have failed give up grew up wanted

grew up
Rapper Jay-Z (1.) in a poor neighborhood in New York City. His family
(2.) much money, and life was difficult sometimes. But Jay-Z loved music and
(3.) to make records. He tried to get a record deal, but he (4.) .
Jay-Z didn’t (5.) . He created his own record label. Today, he is one of the world’s
most successful rappers.

B Circle the correct form of each verb to complete the paragraph.
I want to learn how to (1.) speak / speaking French. I know Spanish and English, but
(2.) learn / learning languages is not easy for me. But now I (3.) need / needed to learn French
because my wife, Cecile, is from France. Her parents only speak French, and I (4.) want / wanted
to impress them. So, I am (5.) practice / practicing. I take classes every Monday and Thursday.
Maybe by the next time we visit them, I will be able to (6.) have / having a conversation with Cecile’s
parents! That’s my goal!

C In your notebook, write a short paragraph about something you
TIP
A topic sentence tells the reader
find difficult, but are learning to do. Remember to write a topic
the main point of the paragraph.
sentence and to use verbs in the simple present and present
Usually, it’s the first sentence in the
continuous. Answer these questions:
paragraph. It should be short and
• What do you want to do? • How are you learning to do it?
clear. Follow your topic sentence
with supporting information that
• Why do you want to do it? • What is your goal?
explains your main point in more
detail.
D Exchange papers with a partner. Identify mistakes. Give your
partner suggestions for improving their writing.

E Look at the numbered list. A good restaurant review should be organized this way. Number the
sentences (1–7) to put the restaurant review into the correct order.

1. give the name of the restaurant    5. say what the service is like
2. explain where it is    6. talk about a dish you had
3. say what type of food it serves    7. say whether you would recommend it,
4. mention whether it’s expensive    and why

The cheese sticks are the best dish. They’re delicious! The cheese is fried and very tasty.

1 Happy Snacks is my favorite restaurant.
© National Geographic Learning
I recommend Happy Snacks because it’s more fun to eat there than anywhere else!

The friendliest people work there. For example, the waiters always sing funny songs.

It’s in the Baytree Mall, and I go there every Saturday with my friends.

It’s cheaper than most restaurants. For example, a slice of pizza is only $1.50.

It serves lots of different snacks, such as fried pickles, chicken wings, and baked potatoes.

PROCESS WRITING 1 | T263

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 263 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 422 ────────

F In your notebook, write a short restaurant review for a
INTRODUCING
EXAMPLES
restaurant you really don’t like. Use the numbered list in E to
Examples help the reader
organize your points. Remember to include examples.
understand your ideas more
clearly. Use these phrases to
G Exchange papers with a partner. Identify mistakes. Give your
introduce your examples:
partner suggestions for improving their writing.
• For example, . . .
• For instance, . . .
• such as . . .
H Read the paragraph. Write F for facts and O for opinions.
Stonehenge, in England, is a very old monument—that is,
a special building or statue to honor an important person
F
or event. (1.) Research shows that building at
Stonehenge began 5,000 years ago. We know some
things for sure about Stonehenge. (2.) For
example, it took hundreds of years to complete. But
this amazing monument contains some extremely large
and heavy stones. (3.) Many experts believe
that these came from an area 20 miles (32 km) away.
Without modern machines, how did they get to Stonehenge? (4.) They could have been
carried across thick ice. (5.) These days, most scientists think that they were carried by
people. However, many of the details are still not known. (6.) We may never know how
Stonehenge was built, but it is a fascinating mystery.

I Choose one of the topics and research it. Then, in your notebook, write a short paragraph about it.
Use the phrases from the box to introduce the facts and opinions. Follow the steps.

Topics    Steps

Bermuda Triangle    1. Start with a topic sentence.
Chupacabra    2. Explain the main idea.
Crop circles    3. Support your points with examples.
Your own idea:    4. Use phrases to introduce facts and opinions.

PRESENTING FACTS AND OPINIONS
When you research a topic, it helps if the reader can easily see which points are facts, and which
are opinions. You can signal this by using phrases like these.
Facts Opinions
Research tells us . . . Experts think . . .
We know that . . . Some people believe . . .
Findings show . . . It could / might / may . . .

J Exchange papers with a partner. Identify mistakes. Give your partner suggestions for improving
© National Geographic Learning
their writing.

T264 | PROCESS WRITING 1

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 264 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 423 ────────

PROCESS WRITING 2

A Replace the words in parentheses with the words from the box.

approximately decrease half increase nearly stylish unique

A recent survey shows last month’s trends in fashion and clothing sales. There was a
decrease
(1. drop) in sales in (2. around) 80 percent of the
main department stores. However, (3. almost) all of the
(4. fashionable) stores showed a big (5. rise) in sales.
Over (6. 50%) of the people who took part in the survey said they prefer
clothes that are (7. unusual) .

B Read Bill’s email to Vicky. Then choose the correct words to complete Vicky’s reply.

Hi Vicky,

I need some fashion advice! I’m going on a date tonight with a girl I really like. It’s our first date,
so I’m pretty nervous. We’re getting pizza first, and then we’re seeing a movie. I have a formal
blue suit and a plain white shirt. Does that sound OK? Email me back soon!

Thanks,
Bill

Hi Bill,

That’s so exciting about your date!

OK, I have some advice for you. Your suit sounds (1.) elegant / casual, but sorry, a suit is too
(2.) comfortable / formal for this kind of date. You (3.) shouldn’t / should wear something more
casual. For example, you could wear a (4.) stylish / brand shirt with some ordinary jeans. You
(5.) should / shouldn’t wear anything too flashy! (6.) You ought to / You’d better not look
relaxed, you know? The most important thing is to be (7.) comfortable / an influencer, and be
yourself.

Good luck, Bill. Enjoy yourself!

Vicky

C Your friend has a job interview at a bank. In your notebook, write
INFORMAL WRITING
In informal writing, we use
a short email giving him or her advice about what to wear to the
contractions. We use a
interview. Remember to use an informal style. Be sure to do the
friendly tone and we usually
following things:
write short, simple sentences.
• Congratulate your friend on getting the interview.
© National Geographic LearningSometimes we include
emoticons and punctuation,
• Tell your friend what he or she should wear.
such as exclamation points.
• Tell your friend what he or she shouldn’t wear.
• Suggest what he or she should do if they don’t have the
appropriate clothing.

D Exchange papers with a partner. Identify mistakes. Give your partner suggestions for improving
their writing.

PROCESS WRITING 2 | T265

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 265 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 424 ────────

E Look at the numbered list. Then number the sentences to put the paragraph into the correct order.
1. the name of the neighborhood    4. another reason
2. number of reasons stated    5. final reason
3. first reason    6. closing sentence

a. Finally, what I like best are the really cool stores
LISTING YOUR REASONS
and the amazing cafes and restaurants.
If you write about something you
like or don’t like, it’s good to support
b. I like spending time there for three reasons.
your main ideas with reasons. It
1    helps the reader if you use key
c. My favorite neighborhood in San Francisco is
phrases to introduce each reason.
called Nob Hill.
This makes the paragraph easier to
d. The next time you’re in San Francisco, go to Nob Hill!
follow. Three is a good number of
reasons to include.
e. First, it’s beautiful. You can see the ocean, and
• First, / Firstly, / The first reason
there are lots of really great parks. My favorite one
is . . .
is Huntington Park.
• Second, / Secondly, / The second
f. Another thing I like about Nob Hill is that the public
reason is / Another reason is . . .
transportation is pretty good. There are buses and
• Finally, / The final reason is . . .
cable cars. This is convenient because some of the
streets are steep and not very walkable, unless you
enjoy walking up a hill!

F In your notebook, write a short paragraph about a neighborhood that you like but don’t live in. Use the
numbered list in E to organize your points. Use the expressions in the box for listing your reasons.

G Exchange papers with a partner. Identify mistakes. Give your partner suggestions for improving
their writing.

H Complete the personal profile with the words from the box.

an internship going to in addition to learning student there

student
My name is Keiko Nakamura. I am a (1.) at the University of Tokyo in Japan.
This June, I am (2.) graduate with a degree in web design. Last summer, I did
(3.) at District IT, a large design company in downtown Tokyo. (4.) ,
I worked with a team of graphic designers and programmers on a big project for an international
company. I also created some smaller designs for a local customer. (5.) my
passion for web design, I enjoy playing music. I am a member of the music society at college, and
I play the violin in our orchestra. I speak Japanese, English, and I am also (6.)
Chinese. In the future, I intend to work full time as a web designer at a large company in my city.

FORMAL WRITING
I Use the numbered steps to make notes. Then, in your notebook,
Writing a personal profile, which
write a personal profile. Remember to use a formal style of writing.
© National Geographic Learning
may be used by universities or
1. your name
future employers, requires a formal
2. the name of your school and what you are studying
writing style. This means not
using contractions, abbreviations,
3. when you will graduate / finish school
slang, or emoticons. Your personal
4. work experience: what and when
profile should be clear and should
quickly let the reader know the key
5. other interests and abilities
points about your education, work
6. your plans and goals for the future
experience, and future goals.

J Exchange papers with a partner. Identify mistakes. Give suggestions for improving their writing.
T266 | PROCESS WRITING 2

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 266 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 425 ────────

PROCESS WRITING 3

A Complete the paragraph with the correct words from the box.

attend festival gets together parade performances takes place

festival
In Ireland, we have an interesting (1.) called the Puck Fair. It (2.)
every year during August in a small town called Killorglin. Thousands of people travel from all over
the world to (3.) this unusual festival. The Puck Fair is more than 400 years old,
and no one is sure why it started, but everyone (4.) and has a good time. On the
first day, there’s a special (5.) with lots of music and family activities. The party
continues the next day with more great singing, dancing, and theater (6.) in the
street. I really love the Puck Fair!

ADJECTIVES
When you write a description, you use adjectives. Adjectives give the reader more information and
they make your writing more interesting. Notice the difference between these descriptions.

without adjectives with adjectives
I went to a festival.    I went to an amazing festival.

There was a performance.    There was an exciting performance.

B Imagine you can create your own festival. In your notebook, write a short description of the festival
you want to create. Use adjectives and provide the following information, in this order:

1. the name of the festival    3. when it takes place    5. how you feel about the
and why you want to    4. what people will do at the    festival
create it    festival and when

2. where it takes place

C Exchange papers with a partner. Identify mistakes. Give suggestions for improving their writing.

D Read the sentences. Pay attention to the words in bold. Do they represent characters (C),
the setting (S), or the story (St)?
C
1. Then James Bond fights the bad guy and escapes.
2. It’s about a kid who becomes a famous drummer.
3. The movie starts in New York City, and ends in California.
4. We discover what happened when the Titanic sank.
5. Hermione and Ron are Harry’s best friends.
6. All of the action takes place in an imaginary world called Narnia.

© National Geographic Learning
E Choose the correct adjectives or adverbs to complete the story.
Last week, a very (1.) strange / strangely thing happened. I was sitting on the train and reading
my book when an old woman arrived and sat next to me. This was (2.) unusual / unusually
because the train was almost empty. She sat there (3.) quiet / quietly and didn’t say anything,
but I noticed that she seemed (4.) nervous / nervously. She was holding a piece of paper in her
hand. Suddenly, she stood up and walked away. Soon after, I (5.) quick / quickly discovered that
the piece of paper was still there. I picked it up and read it. (6.) Incredible / Incredibly, my address
was written on it!

PROCESS WRITING 3 | T267

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 267 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 426 ────────

F In your notebook, write a story about something that happened to you. It can be true or made up.
Choose from the topics below, and include the information indicated. Use adjectives, adverbs, and
the transition words and phrases from the box.
NARRATIVE TRANSITIONS
When you write a story, use words and
Include:
Topics
phrases that help the reader understand the
sequence of events. This way, the reader will
• when the story starts
something funny
know when things happened, and when the
• where it takes place
something scary
action is changing. We call these transition
• who the characters are
something strange
words and phrases.
• what happened
something exciting
• One morning / Last week / When I was
young / A few years ago / It all started . . .

• Just then / Soon after / A moment
G Exchange papers with a partner. Identify mistakes.
later / After a while / As soon as . . .
Give suggestions for improving their writing.
• Suddenly / Immediately / Almost as
quickly / A day later / The following
H Complete the presentation notes with the correct
evening . . .
words from the box.

boring disadvantages exhausting fashion designer glamorous responsible

FASHION DESIGNER
SO YOU WANT TO BE A . . . ?

The
The Requirements
The Advantages
You need to be . . .

3. It’s .
1. It’s exciting.
5. creative.
Designers work long hours,
You can be adventurous with
You can’t be in
fashion design. Be different!
nights and weekends, too.
your designs!

6. a hard worker.
4. It’s demanding.
2. It’s .
You could work with famous
You must be
It can be difficult to please your
and efficient in this job.
people, like movie stars.
customers.

I Write a presentation about a job that interests you. Follow the suggestions in the tip box and the
model in H.

CREATING A PRESENTATION

Do . . . Don’t . . .
write short sentences.    put more than three points on a slide.
use clear headings.    use colors or designs that are distracting.
use bullet points or numbers.    make the writing too small or hard to read.
mark important points in bold or another color.    have more than eight lines of text on a slide.

SO YOU WANT TO BE A . . . ?
© National Geographic Learning

J Exchange papers with a partner. Identify mistakes. Give suggestions for improving their writing.

T268 | PROCESS WRITING 3

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 268 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 427 ────────

PROCESS WRITING 4

A Complete the paragraph with the words from the box.

answer get in touch ignore return rude silent talking

I don’t spend a lot of time on my phone. It drives everyone crazy! My family and all my friends
return
complain because I never (1.) their calls. Most of the time, I keep my phone
on (2.) , but I always check my messages. I try to (3.) my texts,
but when I get a call from someone, I usually (4.) it. I just don’t like
(5.) on the phone! For example, when I’m on the bus, I think it’s really
(6.) when people talk loudly on their phones. I prefer to (7.)
when it’s easier to talk.

B Do you spend a lot of time on your phone? Follow the
DON’T START EVERY
SENTENCE WITH “I”
steps below and write a paragraph in your notebook.
When you write about personal
Remember not to start every sentence with “I”!
experiences, try not to start every sentence
• In your first sentence, answer the question:
with “I.” Instead, you can link sentences
Do you spend a lot of time on your phone?
with but, and, or because, or you can start
some sentences with time expressions,
• Explain how you typically use your phone.
such as sometimes or most of the time.
• What do you do? What don’t you do?
✗ I keep my phone on silent. I always check
• Include reasons and supporting examples.
my messages. I reply to my texts.

✓ Sometimes, I put my phone on silent, but
I always check my messages. Most of the
C Exchange papers with a partner. Identify mistakes.
time, I reply to texts.
Give suggestions for improving their writing.

D Read the sentences. What do the underlined words and phrases mean? Circle the correct option.
1. I love this product! It’s so easy to use. affordable / user-friendly
2. Your new fitness tracker looks really trendy and cool. fashionable / reliable
3. We always buy this brand because we trust it. It’s totally dependable. reliable / durable
4. What she likes is that most of the features are very useful. durable / practical

E Complete the paragraph with the phrases from the box. One phrase is extra.

as fashionable as as many features as used to last
as long as not as affordable as used to love

used to love
I (1.) my cell phone. I had it for a long time, and it was very reliable. But it was
too old, so I got a new one last week. My new cell phone looks pretty fashionable, but I think
I prefer my old one for two main reasons. The most important reason is that the old battery
© National Geographic Learning
(2.) a lot longer. I could use it for two days without charging it! Unfortunately,
my new phone’s battery life is not (3.) the other one’s. I have to charge it twice
a day. Another negative point is that my new phone was (4.) my old one. It has
(5.) my old one, but it was more expensive. Overall, I feel my old phone was a
better product!

PROCESS WRITING 4 | T269

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 269 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 428 ────────

F Compare two electronic devices. Choose from tablets, headphones, laptops, cameras, phones, or
your own idea. Follow the steps below to write a paragraph in your notebook.
1. Explain what products you are comparing.
4. Use key phrases to introduce the pros and cons.
2. Say which one you prefer.
5. Support your main points with examples.
3. Provide the pros and cons.
6. End by stating your preferred product again.

INTRODUCING PROS AND CONS
When you write a comparison between two or more items, it helps
the reader if you use phrases to signal the pros (advantages) and
cons (disadvantages).

Pros Cons
The most important advantage . . .    The main disadvantage . . .
Another excellent feature . . .    Unfortunately, . . .
The good thing about . . .    Another negative point . . .

G Exchange papers with a partner. Identify mistakes. Give suggestions for improving their writing.

H Look at the numbered list. Then number the sentences to put the email in the correct order.
1. Introduce yourself and say where you’re from.    5. Say whether you’ve been to that city.
2. State when you’ll be visiting, who with, and why.    6. Express your hope to stay in that apartment.
3. Explain why you chose this apartment.    7. Ask any questions.
4. Provide some information about yourself.

Hi Pedro,

Your apartment seems close to the main tourist spots, and it looks really cool!
I’ve been to Guadalajara before, but neither of us has ever been to Mexico City.
Just to give you some information about us: Tom is 18, I’m 20, and we’re both crazy about
soccer!
I do have one question for you: Is there a washing machine in the apartment?
1
My name is Vincent, and I’m from Canada.
We’re really looking forward to it, and we hope your apartment is available. It’s the best we’ve
seen.
My brother Tom and I want to visit Mexico City July 14–18 for vacation.

Thanks, Pedro. Hoping to hear from you soon!
Vincent

I You and your cousin are traveling to London for a big music
SEMI-FORMAL EMAILS
© National Geographic Learning
festival. In your notebook, write a semi-formal email to someone
We use a semi-formal style in some
types of emails—for example, when
on a vacation rental website. Follow the steps in H to organize
you are writing to someone you
your email.
don’t know very well, or someone
you haven’t met in person. In
J Exchange papers with a partner. Identify mistakes. Give
semi-formal emails, it’s OK to use
suggestions for improving their writing.
contractions and informal greetings
like Hi Pedro instead of Dear Pedro.
But it’s not OK to use slang or
other very informal language.

T270 | PROCESS WRITING 4

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 270 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 429 ────────

Unit Review Audio Scripts

Track 1
Track 2

1.
Conversation 1
Man: Are you almost ready? We need to leave soon.
Man: Hey, Veronica! Good to see you! How’s life?
Woman: Yes, give me 15 minutes. We can leave at noon.
Veronica: It’s busy! School is good, but I’m studying all the
Man: OK. I just hope the bus isn’t late. Class meets at
time.
12:30, and I don’t want to be late!
Man: Yeah? What classes are you taking now?
At what time is this conversation happening?
Veronica: I’m taking English, science, and math.
Man: How are you doing in your classes?
2.
Veronica: All right. I’m doing well in English, and OK in
Teacher: All right, class, you remember that last week
math and science.
I gave you a list of questions and asked you
to prepare answers. This week, we have our
Man: Are you playing any sports at school?
speaking exam. During the test, I will speak to
Veronica: No, I don’t have time. Are you on the swim team
each of you one-on-one and ask you some of
this semester?
the questions from the list. Please write your
Man: Yes, I am. I have practice every morning at 6.
name on this paper and choose a day and time
Veronica: At 6? Why?
for your speaking exam.
Man: Because that’s the only time that everyone on
What does the teacher ask the students to do?
the team is free!

3.
1.
Paula: It’s very nice to meet you, Felipe. Miriam tells me
Who are the man and the woman?
a lot about you.
2.
Felipe: Nice to meet you, too, Paula. Yes, my sister
What class is the woman NOT taking?
often tells me stories about the fun you two
3.
have spending time together!
What time does the man have swim practice?
Paula: Well, she is my oldest friend, so there are a lot of
Conversation 2
stories to tell!
Jorge: Hi, my name is Jorge.
Who is Paula?
Alexa: It’s nice to meet you, Jorge. I’m Alexa.
Jorge: Nice to meet you too, Alexa. So, are you taking
4.
English here?
Chris: Mr. Morris, do you have a second?
Alexa: No, not this term. I’m taking a history class.
Mr. Morris: Sure, Chris. What’s up?
Jorge: Really? Which class?
Chris: I’d like to introduce you to Yukiko. She’s our
new foreign exchange student.
Alexa: I’m taking the American Revolution course. It’s
taught by Professor Kay.
Mr. Morris: Hello! Nice to meet you, Yukiko!
Jorge: I’ve heard she’s great.
Yukiko: It’s very nice to meet you, too.
Alexa: She is! I’ve only had one class so far, but I really
Who is Yukiko?
liked it. What are you taking?
Jorge: I’m taking Advanced English Grammar. It meets
5.
four days a week!
Woman: I go to yoga class on Mondays and Fridays
after work with my coworker, Martina. It’s really
Alexa: Wow, that sounds difficult!
relaxing, but it’s also kind of difficult! On the
4.
weekend, I also take salsa dancing lessons! I go
How do these people know each other?
with my boyfriend. It’s a lot of fun.
5.
Why does the speaker like yoga?
What kind of class is the woman taking?
6.
© National Geographic Learning
6.
Maria: Hey, Mike.
How often does the man’s class meet?
Mike: Hey, Maria.
Maria: Where were you last night?
Track 3
Mike: I went out to dinner with my friend Erica.
1.
Maria: Did you go to Blue Dragon?
Teenager: Mom, do you know where my notebook is?
Mike: I did! Why?
Mom: Yes, I do. I found it in the refrigerator this
Maria: I was there with my parents! I thought that was
morning!
you!
Teenager: In the refrigerator?
Who went to Blue Dragon last night?

UNIT REVIEW AUDIO SCRIPTS | T271

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 271 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 430 ────────

Unit Review Audio Scripts

Mom: Yes, it doesn’t make any sense at all. Do you
Track 4
have an explanation?
Conversation 1
Teenager: No. It’s a mystery to me!
Woman: I saw on the news that nobody won the lottery
last month.
What does the boy mean when he says, “It’s a mystery to me.”?
Man: Really?
2.
Woman: Yeah. The next winner will win over a million
Man: It’s your turn. You can play the cards you have,
dollars.
or you can take a chance and pick new cards.
Man: Wow. I doubt that I’ll win the lottery.
Woman: Hmm . . . I feel lucky today, so I’ll pick new
Woman: Why not? Do you buy lottery tickets?
cards. Oh, no! These are terrible cards!
Man: No, I don’t. I’m not a lucky person. I won’t win.
Man: Sorry, better luck next time!
Woman: You never know, Carlos. You could be a winner,
What are the people doing?
but you have to take a chance and play the lottery.
Man: Do you think you’re a lucky person, Alba?
3.
Man: A really amazing thing happened yesterday.
Woman: I might be. Ask me tomorrow after we find out
who won the lottery!
Woman: Really? What?
Man: Good luck!
Man: I was cleaning my room, and I found an old
watch that my grandfather gave me many years
1.
ago. So, I decided to wear it. Later that day, I
What are the man and the woman talking about?
found $50 on the street!
2.
Woman: Wow! I think your grandfather’s watch might
What does the man say about himself?
bring you good luck!
3.
Why does the woman think the watch is lucky?
Why won’t the man win?

Conversation 2
4.
Man: Some people say that it’s better to be lucky than
Woman: Amelia Earhart was a famous pilot and the first
to be smart. Do you agree?
woman to fly alone across the Atlantic Ocean.
When she tried to fly around the world by herself
Woman: Hmm, I don’t know.
in 1937, she disappeared, and no one ever saw
Man: I think that I agree. I have had good luck in my
her again. There are many theories about what
life.
happened, but there isn’t enough proof for any
Woman: Yeah? How so?
of them. Scientists and historians continue to do
research to try to solve this mystery, but no one
Man: I go to a great school, I live in a nice apartment,
has figured it out yet.
and I have a lot of good friends.
Woman: Is that luck, or do you think you have all those
Why was Amelia Earhart famous?
things because you are smart? You go to a
great school because you are smart and worked
5.
hard in high school. That’s why you were
Man: If you like chocolate, you’re in luck. Studies
accepted there.
have found that chocolate is actually good
Man: That’s true.
for you. Researchers have been investigating
this for years, and they have found that eating
Woman: And you are able to afford a nice apartment
chocolate can help you live longer and have a
because you are careful with your money. You
healthier heart. It can also help you wake up
are smart with how you spend it.
and make you feel energized. Plus, it makes you
Man: That’s true, too. I don’t go to expensive
happy!
restaurants very often, and I never spend much
money on clothes.
What is NOT a reason why chocolate is good for you?
Woman: Right! That doesn’t sound like luck to me.
© National Geographic Learning
6.
Man: But I’m lucky to have good friends. And, of
Man: Is the Loch Ness Monster real?
course, I’m lucky to know you!
Woman: I don’t think so.
Woman: Well, you are right about that . . .
Man: Really? I think it is. Too many people have
4.
photographs of some large creature in Loch
What is one reason the man thinks he is lucky?
Ness.
5.
Woman: That’s not enough proof! Those could be fake.
Why does the woman think that the man has a nice
Does the woman believe that the Loch Ness Monster is
apartment?
real?
6.
What is one way in which the man is smart?

T272 | UNIT REVIEW AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 272 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 431 ────────

Unit Review Audio Scripts

Emma: I totally disagree! They look very comfortable to
Track 5
me!
1.
Mom: Sorry, Emma, but the answer is no.
Woman: You should get a new suit for your interview.
Emma: This is so unfair!
Man: Well, I already have a jacket and pants. I just
Why does Emma’s mom say she can’t get the shoes?
need to buy a tie today.
Woman: I’ll pick one out for you. I’ll match it to that blue
6.
shirt you just bought.
Man: Is that what you’re wearing?
Woman: Yeah, why?
What event is the man going to?
Man: It’s pretty cold out. You ought to bring a jacket.
2.
Man: You want to take $10,000 out of your savings
What is the problem with the woman’s clothes?
account?
Woman: Yes, that’s right. My account number is 39685.
Track 6
Man: OK. Just a moment. I need my manager’s
signature to withdraw an amount that large.
Conversation 1
Woman: Hey, Orlando. How do you like your new
Where does this man work?
school?
3.
Orlando: It’s pretty good. I made some new friends.
Man: Tomorrow, the city is stopping the use of buses
Woman: I see you’re wearing a shirt and tie. Does the
powered by gas and replacing them with
school have a dress code?
electric ones. This trend is happening in cities
Orlando: Yes, it does. Students can’t wear casual clothes
and towns across the country as more and
to school.
more people want to improve the environment.
Woman: So, no jeans or sporty clothes?
The electric buses not only decrease air
pollution, but they will save the city around 3
Orlando: No way. The school’s style is formal and
million dollars a year. However, the buses cost
conservative.
nearly 15 million dollars. Most people in the city
Woman: Do all of the girls have to wear skirts?
think buying the new electric buses was a good
Orlando: Yes, and they can’t wear high heels.
idea, but some people disagree. They think the
city should spend the money in other areas, like
Woman: What do your classmates say about the dress
education.
code?
Orlando: Well, about half of them dislike it. But I like it
What do some people say against the new electric buses?
because everyone looks nice. You should try a
more formal style at your school. You’ll like it,
4.
too.
Woman: Most fashion influencers agree . . . red is this
year’s most stylish color. It’s bright, it’s bold,
1.
and almost everyone looks great in it! All of
What does the woman ask the man?
the biggest brands are using this color in their
2.
clothes this year, so next time you’re shopping
Why does the woman ask about a dress code?
in the mall or online, you’d better pick out
something red so you can be in style!
3.
How many students dislike the dress code?
What is NOT a reason the woman gives to buy red clothes
Conversation 2
this year?
Woman: On Earth, people speak approximately
5.
7,000 different languages, but most of these
Emma: Mom, I really want to get these shoes.
languages aren’t spoken by very many people.
Most people speak one of the five most
Mom: Really? Those shoes? Well, they definitely are
© National Geographic Learning
common languages. These languages are
unique . . .
English, Mandarin Chinese, Hindi, Spanish, and
Emma: Yes, they are! That’s exactly why I like them. This
French. Around 1.2 billion people speak English.
brand is so stylish, and this influencer I follow on
Of these people, 379 million of them are native
social media has them, and they look great on
English speakers. That’s only about 30 percent!
her.
So, most of the world’s English speakers
Mom: I see what you mean, but I think they’re
learned English as a second language.
too expensive. And they don’t look very
comfortable.

UNIT REVIEW AUDIO SCRIPTS | T273

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 273 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 432 ────────

Unit Review Audio Scripts

4.
I should take a break and go to China, Japan,
How many languages are spoken on Earth?
Korea, and Thailand for a few months. I can
try the food, see the famous places there, and
5.
meet new people. Then, eventually, I’ll come
Which of these is NOT one of the five most common
back and start working again. Do you think this
languages?
is a good idea?
6.
What percentage of English speakers are learning English as
What decision does the woman have to make?
a second language?
6.
Harry: Hey, Elena. What’s up?
Track 7
Elena: Hey, Harry. Not much.
1.
Harry: You seem upset. Is everything OK?
Woman: Let’s have some people over for dinner
Elena: Not really. I just found out that my mom lost her
tomorrow.
job.
Man: I have to work late tomorrow. What about the
Harry: Oh, no! I’m sorry to hear that.
next day?
Elena: Me, too. I feel really bad for her. She’s been with
Woman: Sure. We can do it on Friday instead.
her company for ten years.
Harry: That’s really too bad.
What is going to happen tomorrow?

Why is Elena upset?
2.
Jiro: I really want to apply for this internship. It seems
like a great opportunity, but I don’t know how to
Track 8
get started.
Marta: Don’t worry, Jiro. I’ll help you create a resume. I
Conversation 1
just made mine last week. It wasn’t too difficult.
Gustavo: Hi, Paloma. What are you going to do after
graduation?
Jiro: Really? That’s great! Thanks so much for your
help, Marta.
Paloma: Hey, Gustavo. Well, I’m going to do an
internship.
What does Marta decide to do?
Gustavo: Really? Where?
3.
Paloma: At a museum in Mexico City.
Man: Hey, Diana. How’s your brother doing?
Gustavo: That’s cool.
Diana: He’s doing pretty well. He just got a job in
Paloma: I guess so, but I didn’t get any of the full-time
finance.
jobs I applied for.
Man: That’s great!
Gustavo: I’m sorry to hear that.
Diana: It is. But he’s kind of disappointed because he’s
Paloma: The internship is only for the summer. It’s not a
still living at home with our parents. He has to
paid position. I’ll probably start looking for a job
save money to buy a car before he can spend
again in August.
money on rent.
Gustavo: Maybe the internship will lead to a job. You
Man: Well, that will probably only be for a year or so.
never know.
Diana: Yeah. I’m sure it will be fine.
Paloma: Maybe. What are your plans?
Gustavo: I got a job. I’m going to work at a construction
Why is Diana’s brother unhappy?
company here.
4.
Paloma: That’s great! I’m sure you’ll be very successful.
Man: Ugh. There’s so much competition to get into a
1.
good college these days! It’s stressful!
What is Paloma going to do after graduation?
Woman: Sorry that you’re stressed. Is there anything I
© National Geographic Learning
can do?
2.
Why does Gustavo say, “I’m sorry to hear that.”?
Man: Not really. I should have studied harder in high
school. Now, I’m not sure that I’ll get accepted
3.
into any schools.
What are Gustavo’s plans?

Conversation 2
What is the man’s problem?
Man: Nacho, do you know Bruno from our history
5.
class?
Woman: Can I have your advice? I want to take time off
Nacho: Yeah. Why?
from work and travel the world. I work at a big
Man: He’s starting his own business!
company in the city, but I’m bored. I think that
Nacho: Wow. Really? What is it?

T274 | UNIT REVIEW AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 274 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 433 ────────

Unit Review Audio Scripts

Man: It’s a company that helps people buy and sell
Man: Very good. How many people?
bikes. It’s called Cycle Recycle.
Woman: Six.
Nacho: Hmm. That’s interesting! How does it work?
Man: And what time would you like to come in?
Man: People who want to buy a bike but don’t have
Woman: 7:30, please.
a lot of money to spend on it can connect with
Man: All right. May I have your name?
people who have an old bike but don’t need it
Woman: Monica Gutierrez.
anymore. Then, they can decide on a fair price
and make an appointment to meet. It helps
Man: Thank you, Ms. Gutierrez. We will see you
everyone!
tomorrow.
Nacho: That’s a really good idea. I’m actually looking for
What will the woman probably do tomorrow night?
a bike!
Man: Well, I don’t think the business is ready yet.
5.
Bruno has just started making the app. But
Woman: Hey, Justin. Did you hear about the food festival
hopefully it’ll be ready soon!
taking place in the park this weekend?
Justin: Yeah, it sounds like fun!
4.
Woman: I want to participate in the cooking competition.
What is Bruno going to do?
First prize is $5,000!
5.
Justin: Wow! I want to see that, but I don’t have tickets
Which statement about Cycle Recycle is true?
to the festival yet.
6.
Woman: I don’t either. Let’s go buy our tickets now!
Why can’t Nacho buy a bike through Cycle Recycle right
now?
Who has tickets to the festival?

Track 9
6.
Man: So, Selena, what are your plans this weekend?
1.
Selena: Well, I have two choices. My roommate invited
Woman: I picked up the cake, and I’m on the way to your
me to a birthday party at her boyfriend’s house,
apartment.
and my friend from high school invited me to try
Man: Great. Did you buy some candles, too?
that new Thai restaurant with her. I don’t know
what to do!
Woman: Of course. I’m almost there. I’ll text you when
I’m outside.
Man: You never see your friend from high school. You
should go to dinner with her.
What is the woman going to do next?
What does the man suggest the woman do?
2.
Erin: Hey, Esteban. Do you have a minute?
Track 10
Esteban: Sure, Erin.
Erin: My family has tickets for the soccer game on
Conversation 1
Sunday. Would you like to go with us?
Emilio: Hi, Alicia.
Esteban: Sure! It will be a great game. Thanks!
Alicia: Hi, Emilio.
Emilio: Are you going to Isabel’s birthday party on
How does Esteban feel?
Friday night?
3.
Alicia: Um . . . I don’t think so. It’s at a nightclub, right?
Woman: What are you doing this weekend?
Emilio: Yeah, that’s right.
Man: Well, I’m invited to a barbecue, but I don’t know
Alicia: I don’t like nightclubs.
if I should go.
Emilio: Me neither. After I go to a nightclub, my head
Woman: Why?
hurts from the loud music.
© National Geographic Learning
Man: Because I don’t eat meat, and the food will be
Alicia: I know what you mean. Anyway, my family is
hamburgers and hot dogs.
having a barbecue on Friday. I’d rather be there.
Woman: There will probably be some food you can eat,
Emilio: That sounds like a better idea.
like pasta salad. You should go. It will be fun.
Alicia: Would you like to come?
What problem does the man have?
Emilio: Sure, I’d love to.
Alicia: Great! Come over around seven.
4.
Man: Good evening. Mistral Restaurant. How may I
1.
help you?
What doesn’t the woman like?
Woman: Hi. I’m calling to make a reservation for dinner
tomorrow night.

UNIT REVIEW AUDIO SCRIPTS | T275

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 275 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 434 ────────

Unit Review Audio Scripts

2.
of information: to enter the office building,
What happens to the man after he goes to a nightclub?
you will need your employee ID card. You will
receive that card later today. It is important to
3.
be punctual and to tell your manager if you are
Where are the man and woman going to be on Friday night?
going to be late.
Conversation 2
Who is this information for?
Woman: Antonio, guess what I’m going to do after we
graduate.
4.
Antonio: What?
Interviewer: Thanks for coming in today, Kim.
Woman: I’m going to go to the Rock al Parque festival
Kim: My pleasure. I’m happy to be here.
in Bogotá in July! Then we’re going to travel
Interviewer: So, tell me a little about yourself.
around Colombia for a week. Do you want to go
Kim: Well, I’m currently working as a
with me and my friends?
salesperson at a small bookstore. I’ve
Antonio: I’d love to, but I can’t.
worked there for four years. It has been
Woman: Really? Why?
a good experience, but I want to try
Antonio: There’s no way my parents would let me go on
something new. I’d like to be a store
a trip like that. They think music festivals are
manager. I’m responsible and personable,
too crowded and unsafe. Plus, I need to save
and I think these qualities will help me be
money. I can’t afford a vacation right now.
a great manager.

4.
How long has Kim worked at the bookstore?
What will happen to the woman soon?
5.
5.
Man: I just heard the most unbelievable story!
What does the woman want to do?
Woman: Really? Tell me!
6.
Man: So, a man was looking for work for many
Why can’t the man go with her?
months, when finally he got his dream job! It
was well paid and everything. He was excited
Track 11
for his first day of work, but when he went to his
new office, he found the company was closed,
1.
permanently!
Man: Lina told me you’re going to Japan this summer.
Woman: Are you serious?!
That’s exciting!
Man: Yes! After the man’s interview, the company shut
Woman: Yes! I usually go at least once a year for work.
down, but no one told him.
Man: Wow! You must have a glamourous job! I’ve
Woman: Oh, no! That’s terrible.
been there a few times myself. It’s an amazing
place.
Man: The good news is the man now has a better
job at a company that is actually open, and he’s
Who has been to Japan?
doing really well.
Woman: Wow, that’s good to hear!
2.
Woman: Hey, Darin, I think I found a good job for you.
Which statement is true?
How long have you worked at City Market?
6.
Darin: I’ve worked there since I graduated from
Man: Did you like the movie?
college, so two years now.
Woman: It was OK. I thought the story was hard to
Woman: Perfect! This job ad says you need at least
follow. What about you?
two years of experience. They are also looking
for someone who is flexible and can work
Man: I liked it, but I read the book it’s based on, so it
independently.
was easier to follow.
Darin: I can do that. I often work by myself at my
© National Geographic Learning
What does the woman say about the movie?
current job, and I don’t mind working on many
different projects at once.
Track 12
Woman: It sounds like a good fit. I think you should apply
today!
Conversation 1
Which item isn’t a requirement for this job?
Woman: How was your job interview, Ignacio?
Ignacio: It went well, I think.
3.
Woman: Good morning and welcome to BeFit
Woman: Where was the office?
Incorporated. We are very excited for all of
Ignacio: It was downtown. I took the bus.
you to join our team. A few important pieces

T276 | UNIT REVIEW AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 276 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 435 ────────

Unit Review Audio Scripts

2.
Woman: Did you get there on time?
Man: I can’t stand it when people talk on the phone in
Ignacio: Yes. I arrived early and took a walk around the
public. Last night, my girlfriend and I were at a
plaza for a few minutes.
restaurant. The man at the table next to us was
Woman: Who was the interview with?
on the phone the whole time. We couldn’t enjoy
Ignacio: First, I met Teresa Perez. She’s the department
eating our meal with him talking and talking.
manager.
I don’t want to hear someone else’s private
conversation!
Woman: What did she ask you about?
Ignacio: My work experience and skills. She also told me
What does the man think of people talking on the phone in
some more details about the job.
public places?
Woman: Did you meet someone else?
3.
Ignacio: Yes. Then I talked with the human resources
Isabel: Hi, is Paula there?
manager. He asked questions about my
qualities, like being responsible and personable.
Man: May I ask who’s calling?
Woman: How did it end?
Isabel: Isabel.
Ignacio: They both said they were impressed with me!
Man: I’m sorry. She’s not here right now. Would you
Ms. Perez said she’ll call me later this week.
like to leave a message?
Isabel: No, thank you. I’ll call back later.
1.
What did the man do before his interview?
Why doesn’t the woman leave a message?
2.
4.
Who is Teresa Perez?
Luis: Hello. Can I speak to Marta, please?
3.
Woman: May I ask who’s calling?
What two qualities does the man talk about?
Luis: It’s Luis. I’m a friend from school.
Conversation 2
Woman: Could you hold for a moment?
Man: We learned some interesting things about fairy
tales in English class today.
What will the woman probably do?
Woman: Fairy tales? You mean like Cinderella?
5.
Man: Yeah, old ones like that, but modern ones, too.
Woman: I have an important meeting with my boss this
Woman: What’s a modern fairy tale?
morning.
Man: Well, that’s what we talked about—what some
Man: I thought you said that she was in Tokyo this
movies and stories today have in common with
week.
old stories.
Woman: She is. It’s a video call with her and the team
Woman: Good guys and bad guys!
there.
Man: Right! In Hunger Games and Harry Potter, the
good character has to overcome the bad one.
How will the woman talk with her boss?
And it’s usually difficult.
6.
Woman: It has to be difficult to make it a good story!
Man: Carla, could I use your phone?
Man: Exactly!
Carla: Now? We’re in the library. Talking on the phone
is banned here.
4.
What are these people talking about?
Man: I know, but it’s important.
5.
Carla: OK, but you have to go outside to make the
What do old and modern fairy tales have in common?
call.
6.
What will the man probably do?
What does the woman say makes a good story?
© National Geographic Learning
Track 14
Track 13

Conversation 1
1.
Enrique: Why didn’t you answer your phone, Linda?
Woman: I’m sorry, sir. We’re about to take off. Would you
mind turning off your phone?
Linda: Because right now I’m talking to you, Enrique. I
didn’t want to be rude.
Man: Sure, no problem.
Enrique: You’re very thoughtful.
Woman: Thank you. Cell phone use will be allowed again
when we land in Lima.
Linda: Thanks. If the caller left a message, I’ll call them
back later. No big deal.
Where are these people?

UNIT REVIEW AUDIO SCRIPTS | T277

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 277 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 436 ────────

Unit Review Audio Scripts

3.
Enrique: So many people are not polite when it comes to
Oscar: Hey, Karina, have you been to the new art
using their phones.
museum yet?
Linda: I agree. It seems like every day on the subway I
Karina: No, Oscar, I haven’t been yet. What about you?
hear someone talking loudly on their phone.
Oscar: Yes, I’ve already been. I was there last week.
Enrique: I always lower my voice when I need to use my
phone in a public place.
Who has been to the new art museum?
Linda: That’s the best thing to do. It’s better to keep
calls private and quiet!
4.
Man: Hi, Tina! It’s great to see you again! How was
1.
your flight?
What does the woman do?
Woman: The flight was fine, but I had to wait in line at the
2.
security checkpoint for over an hour!
What doesn’t the woman want to be?
Man: What? Why?
3.
Woman: There were a lot of people in line with large
What do the man and woman agree on?
pieces of carry-on luggage.
Conversation 2
Laura: Andre, would it be OK if I used your phone?
How does the woman feel?
Andre: Sure. Did you forget your phone at home?
5.
Laura: Not exactly.
Woman: You look worried. What’s wrong?
Andre: What do you mean?
Man: I can’t find my bus pass, and the bus is coming!
Laura: My parents took it away. I can’t use it for a
Woman: Just pay for the bus ride to school, and then
month.
look for your pass.
Andre: Why? What happened?
What will the man probably do?
Laura: I was texting while driving, and they found out.
They were mad.
6.
Andre: Laura, what a stupid thing to do. Texting while
Man: Have you ever been to another country?
driving is dangerous!
Woman: No, I haven’t. Have you?
Laura: I know. I won’t do it again.
Man: Yes, I went to Brazil last year. It was an exciting
trip!
4.
What does the woman ask the man to do?
What can be inferred about the speakers?
5.
Where is the woman’s phone?
Track 16
6.
What does the man say about texting and driving?
Conversation 1
Man: Have you ever gone camping, Susanna?
Track 15
Woman: Yes, I love camping. Why?
Man: I’m going camping for the first time and I need
1.
help. What should I pack?
Mario: Hi, Marissa! Thanks for checking on my house
Woman: OK. I’ll tell you what you have to do. First, do
while I’m on vacation. Here are the keys.
you have a backpack?
Marissa: No problem, Mario. So, I have to take care of
Man: Yes. And a sleeping bag.
the cat, pick up the mail, and water the plants?
Woman: Good. For safety, you need to pack a flashlight
Mario: Yes, that’s all. Thanks so much—I could put the
and a first-aid kit.
cat in a kennel, but it is so expensive!
Man: OK. What about a Swiss Army knife?
What is the woman doing for the man while he is away?
© National Geographic Learning
Woman: Definitely. Have you thought about food?
2.
Man: I’ll bring granola bars.
Woman: Hey, Pedro! Great to see you! Do you need to
Woman: That’s not enough. You need some canned food
go to the baggage claim?
and water.
Pedro: No, I didn’t bring a suitcase, just this backpack.
Man: My backpack is going to be heavy!
Thanks so much for picking me up at the
Woman: It’s going to get heavier. You also need to pack . . .
airport! Let’s go to the car.

What type of luggage does the man have?

T278 | UNIT REVIEW AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 278 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 437 ────────

Unit Review Audio Scripts

1.
Who has gone camping before?
2.
What does the man need?
3.
What does the woman tell the man to pack?

Conversation 2
Man: Have you looked for a place to stay in Trujillo?
Woman: Yeah, but the hotels are expensive.
Man: Well, what are we going to do?
Woman: We could rent a room in someone’s home.
Man: But we don’t know anyone there.
Woman: I found a nice apartment on this homesharing
website. Look at this. It has a balcony; it’s close
to the beach . . .
Man: It’s nice, but we don’t know the people who live
there.
Woman: Just think about it. I’m going to write to them for
some more information.

4.
What is the problem?
5.
What is the man’s concern?
6.
What does the woman suggest the man do?

© National Geographic Learning

UNIT REVIEW AUDIO SCRIPTS | T279

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 279 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 438 ────────

Supplementary Content Answer Keys

Exercise D
BRIDGE UNITS
1. the spiciest, 2. the most popular, 3. the best,
Bridge to Unit 1
4. the trendiest, 5. the most romantic, 6. the most
Grammar
boring
Exercise A
Exercise E
1. Wash, 2. Don’t drink, 3. Eat, 4. take,
1. believe, 2. are making, 3. is living, 4. doesn’t
5. don’t stay up, 6. Go
own / does not own, 5. are working, 6. appreciate
Exercise B
Exercise F
1. b, 2. c, 3. d, 4. a, 5. e, 6. f
1. There could be life on other planets., 2. Some
Exercise C
planets may have water., 3. We can’t be the only
intelligent life., 4. The theory might be correct.,
1. can; can’t, 2. couldn’t, 3. Can, 4. can, 5. could,
5. The lights may be from a plane., 6. Scientists
6. Could
can’t know everything about other galaxies.
Exercise D
Vocabulary
1. so, 2. Correct, 3. so, 4. because, 5. because,
Exercise A
6. Correct
1. going out, 2. neighbor, 3. classmates,
Exercise E
4. boyfriend, 5. friends, 6. coworkers, 7. spend
1. F, 2. F, 3. P, 4. F, 5. P, 6. P, 7. F
time together, 8. get along well
Exercise F
Exercise B
Answers will vary. Use -ed adjectives for items
Possible answers: fail a class / an exam, get a
1, 2, 4. Use -ing adjectives for items 3, 5, 6.
good / bad grade, have a class / an exam / fun,
pass a class / an exam, prepare for a class / an
Vocabulary
exam, take a class / an exam / lessons
Exercise A
Answers for sentence practice will vary.
1. head, 2. chest, 3. arm, 4. stomach, 5. leg,
Exercise C
6. hand, 7. back, 8. foot
Answers will vary.
Exercise B
1. delicious, juicy, sweet, 2. oily, salty, spicy, tasty,
1. talented, 2. dangerous, 3. brave, 4. curious,
3. oily, salty, tasty, 4. delicious, juicy, tasty,
5. successful, 6. safe, 7. stressed, 8. difficult
5. delicious, sweet, sour, 6. juicy, sour
Exercise C
Exercise D
1. classic movie, 2. documentary, 3. action
1. bad luck, 2. by chance, 3. facts, 4. lucky,
movie, 4. horror movie, 5. drama, 6. science
5. investigating, 6. unlucky, 7. do research,
fiction, 7. romantic comedy
8. proof, 9. avoid, 10. data, 11. increase her
chances, 12. figure out
Exercise D

1. entertaining, 2. violent, 3. funny, 4. surprising,
Pronunciation Practice
5. scary, 6. boring, 7. exciting, 8. original
Exercise A
Bridge to Unit 4
1. 3, 2. 2, 3. 2, 4. 3, 5. 3, 6. 3, 7. 3, 8. 2, 9. 2,
Grammar
10. 3, 11. 4, 12. 4
Exercise A
Exercise C
1. lives, 2. are staying, 3. is studying, 4. have,
© National Geographic Learning
1. a, e, f, 2. b, c, g, 3. d
5. play, 6. is learning
Bridge to Unit 7
Exercise B
Grammar
1. did you graduate from high school, 2. helped
Exercise A
you with the project, 3. did Gloria work at the
1. Half, 2. None, 3. A lot, 4. Most, 5. Some, 6. All
school, 4. Kim a good art student, 5. did they
learn photography, 6. Silvia pass the history exam
Exercise B
Exercise C
Answers will vary.
1. You should wear a suit and tie., 2. You ought
1. more tastier, 2. more famous, 3. Correct, 4.
to follow their rules., 3. You could cut your hair.,
spicier, 5. better, 6. Correct

T280 | SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 280 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 439 ────────

Supplementary Content Answer Keys

4. You’d better take an umbrella., 5. You ought
Exercise D
to wear something nicer., 6. You could shop for
1. quickly (end of sentence), 2. Correct, 3. fast,
clothes at a thrift store.
4. correctly (before comma), 5. different, 6. well,
Exercise C
7. Correct, 8. easily (end of sentence)
Possible answers: 1. Would you mind going to
Exercise E
the grocery store?, 2. Could you do the laundry,
Answers will vary.
please?, 3. Will you vacuum the rug?, 4. Can you
1. How long have you studied English?, 2. How
make dinner tonight, please?, 5. Could you pick
long have you known your teacher?, 3. How long
me up, please?, 6. Would you mind making a
have you lived in this city?, 4. How long have you
reservation for lunch?
lived in your house or apartment?, 5. How long
Exercise D
have you gone to this school?, 6. How long have
you had the same hairstyle?
Answers will vary.
1. Shang, that speaks five languages
Exercise F
Exercise E
1. Have you ever been to Mexico City?, 2. I’ve
never done karaoke. / I have never done
1. is going to, 2. will / ’ll, 3. is going to / ’s going
karaoke., 3. She moved there six years ago.,
to, 4. will / ’ll, 5. are going to, 6. will / ’ll
4. He has worked here for ten years., 5. I’ve
Exercise F
already finished it. / I have already finished it.,
6. Did you get a good grade on the exam?,
1. I’ll probably travel / I’m probably going to
7. How long did you work at City Corp?
travel, 2. He’s definitely going to fail / He’ll
definitely fail, 3. probably won’t come / probably
Vocabulary
isn’t going to come, 4. maybe it will rain / maybe
Exercise A
it’s going to rain, 5. he’s definitely going to get
accepted / he’ll definitely get accepted, 6. it will
Sentences will vary.
arrive / it’s going to arrive
Collocations:
get together    invite friends
Vocabulary
have a good time    plan a party
Exercise A
have a party    throw a party
have friends
1. exactly, 2. nearly, 3. increased, 4. about / over,
5. over / about, 6. decrease
1. I get together with my friends on the weekend.
Exercise B
Exercise B
1. do, 2. make, 3. Correct, 4. go, 5. make, 6. off
1. gather, 2. prize, 3. traditions, 4. takes place,
5. competitor, 6. performer, 7. race, 8. participate
Exercise C
Left column Verb: compete; participate
1. walkable, 2. on foot, 3. bike lanes, 4. traffic,
5. sidewalks, 6. get to
Middle column Noun: participation; performance
Exercise D
Right column Noun (person): competitor;
performer
1. decision, 2. apply, 3. consideration,
4. arranged, 5. choice, 6. recommends
Exercise C
Bridge to Unit 10
1. clever, 2. realistic, 3. incredible, 4. succeed,
Grammar
5. discover, 6. take place
Exercise A
1. Clever is an adjective. It means intelligent.,
Answers will vary.
2. Realistic is an adjective. It means showing
© National Geographic Learning
people and things in a way that is similar to
Exercise B
real life., 3. Incredible is an adjective. It means
1. b, 2. f, 3. a, 4. d, 5. c, 6. e
amazing and difficult to believe., 4. Succeed is a
verb. It means to do something that is difficult.,
Exercise C
5. Discover is a verb. It means to learn something
1. were eating, 2. went, 3. was, 4. arrived,
you didn’t know in the past., 6. Take place is a
5. was screaming, 6. came, 7. was lying,
verb. It means to happen.
8. was bleeding
Exercise D

1. exhausting, 2. rewarding, 3. dull, 4. hazardous,
5. demanding, 6. well paid

SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT ANSWER KEYS | T281

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 281 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 440 ────────

Supplementary Content Answer Keys

Question Formulation
UNIT REVIEWS
Exercise A
Unit 1
1. Do you think you are lucky?, 2. Can you figure
Accuracy Practice
out the English homework?, 3. Is there proof of
Exercise A
life on Mars?, 4. Did you meet your best friend by
chance?, 5. Do you like to play the lottery?, 6. Do
1. When did you meet your best friend?, 2. Is
you believe the moon affects people’s behavior?
Monica studying right now? / Monica is studying
right now., 3. Are you taking English this term? /
Exam Preparation: Listening
You are taking English this term., 4. What did you
Exercise A
do this weekend?, 5. When is your tennis lesson?,
6. This class meets on Fridays.
1. c, 2. a, 3. c, 4. c, 5. d, 6. c

Exercise B
Question Formulation
Exercise A
1. a, 2. c, 3. b, 4. a, 5. d, 6. b
Answers may vary.
Exam Preparation: Reading
1. classes are you taking this term, 2. Did you
Exercise A
live at home last year, 3. Does your class meet at
6 pm, 4. do you usually have dinner, 5. grade did
1. b, 2. d, 3. c, 4. b
you get on the test, 6. Are you preparing for an
Unit 4
exam now
Accuracy Practice
Exam Preparation: Listening
Exercise A
Exercise A
1. A lot of my classmates live at home., 2. I see
1. a, 2. c, 3. c, 4. a, 5. b, 6. a
what you mean, but I still disagree., 3. Many
Exercise B
of my neighbors have pets., 4. None of my
classmates like having school uniforms., 5. Over
1. c, 2. d, 3. b, 4. d, 5. c, 6. b
75% of my classmates work part-time.
Unit 2
Exam Preparation: Listening
Accuracy Practice
Exercise A
Exercise A
1. a, 2. b, 3. a, 4. a, 5. c, 6. c
1. healthier, 2. the oldest, 3. baked, 4. spicier,
Exercise B
5. better, 6. best
1. a, 2. c, 3. c, 4. c, 5. d, 6. d
Question Formulation
Unit 5
Exercise A
Accuracy Practice
Answers will vary.
Exercise A
Writing
1. I’d like to make an appointment with the doctor,
Exercise A
2. Would you mind helping me do the dishes,
Answers will vary.
3. Could we meet at 2:30, 4. Is the school very far
from here, 5. It’s easy to get around on foot, 6. I’m
Paiche is my favorite fish. It’s from the Amazon,
calling to reschedule our meeting
but you can try it when you visit Lima, too. . .
Writing
Exam Preparation: Reading
© National Geographic Learning
Exercise B
Exercise A
Answers will vary.
1. a, 2. a, 3. a, 4. b, 5. d, 6. d
In my city, there are many ways to improve public
Unit 3
transportation for commuters. First, my city has a
lot of trains that go to a lot of different places all
Accuracy Practice
over the city, but these trains are very slow. I think
Exercise A
the first thing the city should do is buy newer,
1. believes, 2. is studying, 3. knows, 4. is making,
faster trains . . .
5. appreciates

T282 | SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 282 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 441 ────────

Supplementary Content Answer Keys

Exam Preparation: Reading
Exam Preparation: Reading
Exercise A
Exercise A
1. a, 2. c, 3. b, 4. a, 5. d, 6. b
1. a, 2. d, 3. b, 4. c, 5. c
Unit 6
Unit 9
Accuracy Practice
Accuracy Practice
Exercise A
Exercise A
Answers may vary.
1. How long have you worked here?, 2. How
1. Ernesto is going to fail the test., 2. His parents
long has Patricia had her driver’s license?, 3. I’ve
are going to retire soon., 3. My sister is going to
been a nurse for twelve years., 4. Have they
have a lot of money., 4. Leti will be accepted into
passed the exam yet?, 5. Have you ever traveled
law school., 5. We will travel to Europe someday.
to Kyoto?, 6. I have worked part time since I
graduated.
Exam Preparation: Listening
Exam Preparation: Listening
Exercise A
Exercise A
1. d, 2. a, 3. b, 4. b, 5. d, 6. b
1. c, 2. b, 3. a, 4. a, 5. d, 6. c
Exercise B
Exercise B
1. c, 2. a, 3. c, 4. c, 5. d, 6. a
1. c, 2. a, 3. b, 4. c, 5. b, 6. d
Exam Preparation: Reading

Exercise A
Exam Preparation: Reading
Exercise A
1. a, 2. c, 3. c, 4. d, 5. b
1. d, 2. c, 3. d, 4. d, 5. c, 6. d
Unit 7
Unit 10
Accuracy Practice
Exercise A
Accuracy Practice
Exercise A
1. We put on costumes before we went to the
party. / Before we went to the party, we put
1. Would you like to leave a message for Ana?,
on costumes., 2. Vera is throwing a party on
2. I enjoy talking on the phone., 3. Do you mind
Saturday. / Is Vera throwing a party on Saturday?,
if I borrow your phone?, 4. I need to call my
3. I’d love to go, but I’m busy that day., 4. Do you
mother back., 5. Would it be OK if I made a call?,
want to go to the festival with me?, 5. After the
6. Please avoid talking during the movie.
graduation ceremony, there is a party. / There is
a party after the graduation ceremony. / Is there
Exam Preparation: Listening
a party after the graduation ceremony?, 6. Say
Exercise A
thank you when you receive a gift. / When you
1. b, 2. c, 3. c, 4. a, 5. a, 6. c
receive a gift, say thank you.
Exercise B
Exam Preparation: Listening
1. d, 2. a, 3. d, 4. c, 5. b, 6. c
Exercise A
Unit 11
1. a, 2. d, 3. b, 4. c, 5. d, 6. c
Accuracy Practice
Exercise B
Exercise A
1. c, 2. a, 3. b, 4. a, 5. c, 6. a
© National Geographic Learning
1. Pablo didn’t use to have a driver’s license.,
Unit 8
2. Did your mother use to have long hair?, 3. That
Accuracy Practice
phone costs as much as a new laptop., 4. Wei
used to eat a lot of sweets., 5. His phone is not
Exercise A
as new as my phone., 6. My dad used to have a
1. Were you telling that story?, 2. Ken was eating
black-and-white TV.
dinner when I called him., 3. When I’m nervous, I
speak quickly., 4. She didn’t do well on the math
test., 5. Fairy tales are unusual stories., 6. They
weren’t reading when I came in the room.

SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT ANSWER KEYS | T283

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 283 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 442 ────────

Supplementary Content Answer Keys

Question Formulation
Exercise E
6, 1, 7, 5, 2, 4, 3
Exercise A
Exercise H
1. Did you use to have black hair?, 2. Did you
use to wear glasses?, 3. Did you use to go to the
1. F, 2. F, 3. O, 4. O, 5. O, 6. O
movies?, 4. Did you use to live in the country or
the city?, 5. Did you use to have a telephone in
2
the house?, 6. Did you use to walk to school?
Exercise A
Writing
1. decrease, 2. approximately, 3. nearly, 4. stylish,
5. increase, 6. half, 7. unique
Exercise A
Exercise B
Answers will vary.
1. elegant, 2. formal, 3. should, 4. stylish,
Dear Dad, I just saw the latest fitness tracker. I
5. shouldn’t, 6. You ought to, 7. comfortable
really want it because . . .
Exercise E
Exam Preparation: Reading
5, 2, 1, 6, 3, 4
Exercise A
Exercise H
1. d, 2. a, 3. b, 4. a, 5. d, 6. b
1. student, 2. going to, 3. an internship, 4. There,
Unit 12
5. In addition to, 6. learning
Accuracy Practice
3
Exercise A
Exercise A
1. Has Jose ever been to Guadalajara?, 2. We
1. festival, 2. takes place, 3. attend, 4. gets
have to save money for our trip., 3. You must
together, 5. parade, 6. performances
have a passport to travel there., 4. How long did
you have to wait for the train?, 5. You don’t have
Exercise D
to print your boarding pass at home., 6. I don’t
1. C, 2. St, 3. S, 4. St, 5. C, 6. S
remember locking the front door.
Exercise E
Exam Preparation: Listening
1. strange, 2. unusual, 3. quietly, 4. nervous,
Exercise A
5. quickly, 6. Incredibly
1. b, 2. d, 3. a, 4. d, 5. c, 6. c
Exercise H
Exercise B
Fashion Designer
1. d, 2. a, 3. d, 4. d, 5. a, 6. d
Left column: 2. glamorous
Middle column: Disadvantages 3. exhausting
Exam Preparation: Reading
Exercise A
Right column: 5. boring, 6. responsible
1. a, 2. b, 3. c, 4. d, 5. b
4
Exercise A
PROCESS WRITING
1. return, 2. silent, 3. answer, 4. ignore, 5. talking,
6. rude, 7. get in touch
1
Exercise D
Exercise A
1. user-friendly, 2. fashionable, 3. reliable,
© National Geographic Learning
1. grew up, 2. didn’t have, 3. wanted, 4. failed,
4. practical
5. give up
Exercise E
Exercise B
1. used to love, 2. used to last, 3. as long as,
1. speak, 2. learning, 3. need, 4. want,
4. not as affordable as, 5. as many features as
5. practicing, 6. have
Exercise H
3, 5, 4, 7, 1, 6, 2

T284 | SUPPLEMENTARY CONTENT ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 284 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 443 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Track 2
Track 5

Look at the three questions. In question number one, the
Conversation 1
word boyfriend is stressed by the speaker. In question
Maria: Hi, Junko.
number two, the word your is stressed. In question number
Junko: Hi, Maria. It’s good to see you again! How are
three, the word he is stressed. Listen to the questions and
you?
answers. Notice how the answer is different depending on
Maria: Fine. How about you?
the stressed word.
Junko: Pretty good.
1.
Maria: Oh, and this is my friend Ricardo. We both go to
A: Is he your boyfriend?
City University.
B: No, we’re just friends.
Junko: Hey, Ricardo. Nice to meet you.
Ricardo: Yeah, you too.
2.
A: Is he your boyfriend?
Conversation 2
B: No, he’s going out with Maria.
Mr. Otani: Morning, Miriam.
Miriam: Good morning, Mr. Otani. Oh, Mr. Otani, I’d like
3.
you to meet Andre Garcia. He started working
A: Is he your boyfriend?
here yesterday. Andre, Mr. Otani is our VP of
B: No, he is.
Sales.
Mr. Otani: Nice to meet you, Andre.
Track 3
Andre: It’s very nice to meet you, too, Mr. Otani.
1. Are you a STUDENT at City College?
2. Are you her CLASSMATE?
Track 6
3. I think his best friend lives NEXT DOOR, right?
Introducing a person to someone else
Mr. Otani, I’d like to introduce you to Andre.
Track 4
Mr. Otani, I’d like you to meet Andre.
1.
Junko, this is Ricardo.
Woman: So, Linda, how do you know Michael?
Junko, meet Ricardo.
Linda: Michael? Oh, we went out for a while.
Junko, Ricardo.
Woman: He’s your boyfriend?
Responding to introductions
Linda: Not anymore, but we’re still friends.
It’s very nice to meet you.
Woman: Really?
It’s nice to meet you, too.
Linda: Yeah. In fact, I saw him last weekend. A group of
It’s good to meet you, too.
us went out together.
Nice to meet you.
2.
Good to meet you.
Andre: Excuse me? Are you Miriam?
You, too.
Miriam: Yeah. And you must be Andre.
Asking for someone’s name again
Andre: Right.
I’m sorry, I’m terrible with names.
Miriam: Hi. It’s nice to meet you.
I’m sorry, I’ve forgotten your name.
Andre: Nice to meet you, too.
Miriam: So, Andre, is this your first day working here?
Track 7
Andre: No, I started yesterday.
Try, Try Again
3.
© National Geographic Learning
Rakesh: Clara? Clara Goldman?
At some point in our lives, we all fail at something. Maybe
Clara: Um . . . yeah? Do I . . . do I know you?
we don’t pass an important exam or get good grades.
Failure isn’t easy, but when things are hard, try not to give
Rakesh: I’m Rakesh. Rakesh Patel. We were in the same
up. You can still find success—as these two personal
English class last year.
stories show.
Clara: Oh, yeah! Rakesh. Now I remember you. How are
you doing?
BLACK is a successful Japanese entertainer, but as a
teenager his life was very different. In school, he was quiet
Rakesh: Fine. How about you?
and shy, and other boys bullied him. People often said to
him, “Play a sport!” but BLACK wasn’t good at sports. Then
one day, BLACK bought a yo-yo and his life changed. At
first, he couldn’t do any tricks, but he didn’t give up. He

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T285

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 285 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 444 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Marta: Yes, I did. In fact, when I drove to Savannah, I
watched videos and worked hard for four years. At age
stopped for lunch at a great little restaurant on the
eighteen, he entered the World Yo-Yo Contest and won. He
way. The food was delicious!
was a world champion. Now he performs all over the world.
Bill: Yeah? What was on the menu?
Lindsey Stirling is an American musician. She mixes
Marta: Let’s see, I had fried chicken.
classical violin with dance music and hip-hop. As a child, her
Bill: Sure. You have to eat fried chicken in the South.
parents didn’t have a lot of money, so Lindsey could only
take lessons part time. Despite this, she practiced a lot, and
Marta: Yeah, the chicken tasted yummy. And I had grits
in high school she started writing her own music.
and fried green tomatoes.
Bill: Grits? What are grits?
Then at age twenty-three, Lindsey was on a popular TV
talent show. She did well, but she didn’t win. However,
Marta: They’re made from corn, and they taste like salty,
she kept trying, and in time, she made an album and won
creamy oatmeal.
an important music award. Today, she has a very popular
Bill: Are they spicy?
channel online.
Marta: No, they have a mild flavor. People usually add a lot
of butter to them.
Track 8
Bill: What about the fried green tomatoes?
Steven: Hi, I’m Steven Anderson, and I’m speaking to you
Marta: They were a little sour, but they went well with the
from high in the Himalayan mountains of Nepal.
chicken and grits.
I’m in a village called Phortse, and I’m visiting a
Bill: Sounds like a lot of food.
school here. But it isn’t a school for children, it’s
for adult learners. The Khumbu Climbing Center is
Marta: Yeah, it was!
a school for mountain climbers. It started in 2003,
Bill: So I guess you couldn’t eat any dessert?
and every year, students take classes in climbing
Marta: Well, I was full but . . .
skills and first aid. At the moment, there are about
Bill: . . . but you found room for dessert!
one hundred students, and I’m meeting with one
of them right now. This is Meena from Nepal, and
Marta: Of course! I had Mississippi mud pie. It’s a thick
she’s a student here.
chocolate pie with lots of cream on top.
Meena: Hello.
Bill: Wow! So how was it?
Steven: So, Meena, when did you start classes at the
Marta: It was really sweet—too sweet for me. I only ate
climbing center?
a little.
Meena: I started last week, and I’m here for another week.
Steven: Were you in class today?
Track 10
Meena: Yes, I was. We had lessons in climbing and also
1. The cooking was tasty!
in English.
2. The food was delicious.
Steven: In English?
3. The chicken was dry.
Meena: Yes, we learn English to talk to climbers from
4. The grits were too salty.
other countries. For example, when we work as
5. The tomatoes were sour.
mountain guides, we often speak English.
6. The tomato soup was too hot.
Steven: I see. And do you have to pass tests or exams
while you’re here?
Meena: Yes, we do. We had a test at the end of last week.
Track 11
Steven: Did you pass the test?
Pedro: So, Jill, where do you want to go to dinner tonight?
Meena: Yes, I did!
Jill: I don’t know. Why don’t we go to the pizza place
Steven: Congratulations! So, are the classes difficult? Are
on the corner?
the days long?
Pedro: Pizza again? I don’t really feel like it.
Meena: Yes, each school day is about nine hours long,
Jill: OK, how about Thai food instead?
but we have a lot of fun, too. The teachers are
© National Geographic Learning
Pedro: Fine with me. Where do you want to go?
very good . . .
Jill: Well, Thai House is near here. And there’s another
place—The Thai Cafe—but it’s downtown.
Track 9
Pedro: Thai House is closer. Let’s go there.
Bill: Hi, Marta. How was your trip to Savannah?
Jill: Sounds good!
Marta: Long! But Savannah is a beautiful city!
Bill: Did you try any of the food? Southern cooking is
tasty!

T286 | STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 286 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 445 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

oatmeal, is good because it gives you a lot of energy quickly
Track 12
and improves attention. Also, coffee or tea can help you
Making suggestions
think better. Have one or two cups forty-five minutes before
Statements
the interview.
Let’s have Thai food.
When you’re hangry
It’s late afternoon, and you’re in a bad mood because you’re
Questions
hungry. In other words, you’re hangry! What do you eat?
Why don’t we have Thai food?
Some people like to eat something sweet, but eating a
How about having Thai food?
snack like nuts or something high in protein is much better.
Protein reduces hunger more quickly, and it’s healthier than
Responding to suggestions
sweets.
Good idea!
Great idea!
Track 15
That sounds good to me.
Food is one of the most important parts of a culture. What
That’s fine with me.
we eat says a lot about where we come from. For example,
I don’t really want to.
when we think of pizza, we think of Italy. What time we eat
I don’t really feel like it.
is another important part of culture. This is especially true for
dinner. People in different countries have dinner at different
When rejecting a suggestion, it’s common to give an
times, so if you visit another country or if you are invited to
explanation: I don’t really feel like it. I’m too tired.
the home of someone from a particular culture, it’s useful to
know something about it.
Track 13
The country that seems to have the earliest dinner time is
Stop what you are doing! It’s time to celebrate! JoJo’s
Norway—northern Norway to be exact. With much shorter
Burger Restaurant on Highway 37 is reopening! So what’s
days in the winter months, Norwegians in the north might
different? Well, the first thing you’ll notice when you walk
eat as early as four o’clock in the afternoon. On the other
in is our brand new look! Our tables and chairs are more
hand, if you travel to China, many people return home from
modern and more comfortable than ever before. Then take
work at around six, so dinner starts at about 6:30 pm. In
a look at the bigger menu with much more to choose from.
fact, this seems to be one of most common times for dinner
There are tasty burgers for everyone—from kids to adults—
around the world. In the US, the average time for dinner,
and we now serve both vegetarian and meat options. But
which is often the biggest and longest meal, is 6:22 pm.
don’t worry! All your favorite burgers are still here, including
Though dinnertime can vary from 5 in the evening to 11 at
our mighty spicy double cheeseburger, which tastes hotter
night with many people eating out or ordering takeout.
than ever! With all of our same friendly servers, newly trained
to give you even faster service, JoJo’s really is back in town.
In countries like Mexico, France, and Brazil, people usually
th! Book your table now!
Opening at noon on July 4
eat dinner between 7 and 9. For Mexicans, the biggest
meal of the day isn’t dinner, but lunch. Their lunch often has
different courses whereas dinner can be a smaller meal or
Track 14
even a snack, like a taco. Long lunches in France are also
The Best Foods to Eat
popular, so again, dinner might be a smaller meal. In Brazil,
dinner is an important meal because it’s a time for the whole
In their book What to Eat When, Dr. Michael Roizen and
family to sit down and eat a cooked meal together, rather
Dr. Michael Crupain describe the benefits of eating certain
than eating on the go.
foods in different situations.
Which country has the latest dinner time? It’s probably
When you’re going on a first date
Spain, where people often don’t eat before eight or nine
Feeling nervous? Eat a sandwich with turkey and avocado.
and even wait until ten or eleven at night, especially on
Unlike sugar, these two foods give you energy slowly, so you
weekends. So if you are invited for dinner in Spain, make
feel calm.
sure you have a snack earlier in the evening—just in case!

When you don’t feel well
© National Geographic Learning
Track 16
It’s the world’s oldest advice, but it’s true. When you have
a cold, eat plenty of chicken soup. Because it’s warm and
In American English, speakers sometimes drop syllables
salty, the soup is good for your throat. It helps you breathe
when speaking. You don’t need to be able to say these
easier, too.
words with the dropped syllables, but you should be able
to recognize them when you hear them. Listen to the
Are headaches your problem? If yes, eat more spinach.
pronunciation of these four words and repeat.
Spinach can reduce pain and prevent headaches. It’s also
1. interesting
high in B vitamins, so make it part of your normal diet.
2. generally
When you have a job interview
3. everywhere
On the morning of the interview, eat a good breakfast.
It’s the most important meal of the day! A hot cereal, like
4. finally

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T287

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 287 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 446 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Track 17
Track 20

Are some people just lucky in life? Is good luck something
Saying something is likely
that happens by chance? Or can you learn to be lucky in
I bet that Marco plays the drums.
life? Can you increase your chances for good luck?
Marco probably plays the drums.
Maybe Marco plays the drums.
Professor Wiseman is a psychologist, and he studies luck.
He finds it interesting. And he wants to teach you how to be
Perhaps Marco plays the drums.
luckier in life. He says we don’t become luckier by chance.
Saying something is not likely
It’s something we can all learn. Professor Wiseman believes
I doubt that Marco plays the drums.
that lucky people share at least three of the same habits.
You can use Are you sure? to ask if a person is certain
about something.
Track 18

Are some people just lucky in life? Is good luck something
Track 21
that happens by chance? Or can you learn to be lucky in
life? Can you increase your chances for good luck?
Mysterious Artwork

Professor Wiseman is a psychologist, and he studies luck.
Interviewer: The Nazca Desert in Peru is home to one of the
He finds it interesting. And he wants to teach you how to be
most unusual sites in the world. We talked with
luckier in life. He says we don’t become luckier by chance.
Dr. Gabriel Reyes about the Nazca Lines and
It’s something we can all learn. Professor Wiseman believes
why they are one of history’s greatest mysteries.
that lucky people share at least three of the same habits.
So, Dr. Reyes, tell us: What exactly are the
Nazca Lines?
First, unlucky people spend more time alone. Generally, they
Dr. Reyes: On the ground in the Peruvian desert are
don’t like to try new things because they don’t like surprises.
hundreds of line drawings of different animals,
Lucky people, on the other hand, talk to lots of people.
humans, insects, and other symbols. These
They are friendly and often looking for new experiences
drawings, known as the Nazca Lines, are
everywhere. By having more friends and more experiences
very large. Some are over 365 meters
in life, they increase their chances of having more lucky
(1,200 feet) long. You can only see them
experiences, too.
clearly from a high place, like a plane or the
Secondly, all people have to make decisions in their lives.
mountains nearby.
Professor Wiseman says that lucky people make decisions
Interviewer: Who made the ground drawings?
in a special way: they often follow their intuition. They listen
Dr. Reyes: For years, some people thought visitors from
to their own feelings more than not.
another planet drew them—maybe because
Finally, both lucky and unlucky people have bad
it’s easiest to see the lines from a high place.
experiences. However, they respond in different ways. When
But, in fact, the Nazca people created the
a bad experience happens, a lucky person says, “Well, it
images. They lived in the area from 200 BC to
could have been worse.” They imagine the worst result and
the seventh century AD and probably made
are happy because they didn’t experience it. Even in bad
the drawings over 1,500 years ago.
experiences, they find the good in it. They have a positive
Interviewer: 1,500 years ago? How did they make the
attitude.
lines?
Dr. Reyes: They probably used simple tools. We believe
Track 19
a team worked together and made the
Sandra: Anything interesting in today’s news?
drawings in the desert ground. They didn’t
need airplanes or modern tools.
Nico: Yeah, I’m reading about a woman in New York
City. She just won $25,000.
Interviewer: What was the purpose of the lines?
Sandra: That’s a lot of money. Did she win the lottery?
Dr. Reyes: Good question. We can’t be sure, but we
have different theories. The images may be
Nico: No, she guessed the correct number of candies in
religious symbols. The lines could also be a
a jar.
© National Geographic Learning
large map; perhaps the Nazca people used
Sandra: Really? How many were there?
the lines to find water in the desert. Or maybe
Nico: 7,954.
the lines were a type of calendar. Scientists
Sandra: Wow. That was a lucky guess!
are still investigating.
Nico: I know. I doubt that I could do that!
Interviewer: How are you doing this research?
Sandra: So, what’s she going to do with the money?
Dr. Reyes: We are continuing to study maps of the area
and to use photographs taken from planes,
Nico: I don’t know. Perhaps she’ll go on a vacation or
but nowadays new technology is helping us,
use it for school.
too. We now have drones that can fly much
closer and take better photos of the lines.
We’re also using photographs from satellites,
so we’re finding new information every day.

T288 | STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 288 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 447 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Maria: Yeah. It’s not working well. We need to get a
Track 22
new one.
Stuart: And now for our last report of the evening, we go
Jessica: I have an idea. My brother is getting a new TV
downtown, where city officials plan to put more
next month. Maybe we can have his old one.
police on the street on nights when the moon
Maria: That’s not a bad idea, but I think we need one
is full. For that story, we turn now to Mia Curtis.
right now.
Mia?
Jessica: Yeah, you’re right.
Mia: Yes, Stuart, it’s true. Soon, there might be more
police out when the moon’s full. City officials say
Maria: Actually, we saw a nice TV at the mall last week. It
there are more car accidents and more people
was really cheap.
hurt in fights on these nights. I talked to different
Jessica: I’m not sure about that. I think it was about
people on the street to get their opinion on this
$1,000. That’s too expensive.
plan. Do we need more police on the street when
Maria: How about buying a new one online? Some of the
the moon is full?
websites have good deals.
Woman: I think it makes sense.
Jessica: I know what you mean, but I want to go to a
Mia: So you think the moon can change our behavior?
store. I want to see and test the TV first.
Woman: Yeah, maybe. You know, the moon affects the
Maria: OK. Let’s go to the mall and find a TV we like.
oceans here on Earth. Maybe it affects people,
Then we can buy it online.
too.
Jessica: Good idea!
Mia: And what do you think, sir? Can the moon
change our behavior?
Track 26
Man: There’s no proof that that’s true. My theory is this:
On a full moon night, there’s more light, so maybe
Polite disagreement
more people go out. There are more people on
I know what you’re saying, but . . .
the street, and so there are more accidents and
I see what you mean, but . . .
fights. It’s that simple.
I know what you mean, but . . .
I’m not sure about that.
Track 23
That’s not a bad idea, but . . .
People are spending more and more money shopping
online. In China, for example, the average person spent
More direct disagreement
about $1,100 online in one year. In Great Britain, the number
I’m afraid I disagree.
was approximately $4,250.
Sorry, but I disagree.
Shoppers are buying electronics. They’re buying clothing
I totally disagree.
and even furniture. People are buying almost everything
I completely disagree.
online. And the numbers are increasing a lot each year.
You can use more direct expressions with people you know
There is another item that is increasing in online sales: food.
well (friends, family, etc.).
Many people are now shopping for groceries online, but
some people still prefer to go to the supermarket. They
Track 27
don’t like buying their food online. Why?
In American English, the final /v/ sound in the word of is
sometimes dropped when it is unstressed. You don’t need
Track 24
to drop this sound when speaking, but you should be able
There is another item that is increasing in online sales: food.
to recognize the unstressed of when you hear it. Listen and
Many people are now shopping for groceries online, but
repeat.
some people still prefer to go to the supermarket. They
don’t like buying their food online. Why?
1. All of my friends shop online.
2. Most of them use their phones.
These shoppers want their food to be fresh and delicious.
3. Some of them use laptops.
© National Geographic Learning
Most of them want to see and touch the food before they
buy it. They can’t do that with online shopping.
Track 28
They also want to choose the food themselves. They don’t
want a stranger to pick their food for them.
1. The number of online shoppers is increasing.
Finally, some shoppers like to leave the house. They like to
2. People like online shopping because it’s a lot more
go to a store. They enjoy the experience of shopping.
convenient.
3. They also like the variety of online products.
Track 25
4. People don’t buy everything online, though.
Jessica: Hey, Maria. We need to do something about the
5. Many people still buy their food in local stores.
TV.
6. Also, they like to see and test items first.

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T289

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 289 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 448 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Max: Sounds great. Maybe I should try it.
Track 29
Carla: You ought to! It saves a lot of time—and it’s fun!
The Facts about Fast Fashion
Max: So it’s for guys, too?
It’s really cheap.
Carla: Yeah, definitely.
Designer brands (like Gucci or Supreme) sell stylish,
Max: Is it expensive?
expensive clothing. Fast-fashion brands (like Zara and H&M)
also sell trendy clothes, but for much less. A designer shirt,
Carla: Not really. You only pay for the clothes you want to
for example, might cost nearly $1,300. A similar shirt—made
keep. If something doesn’t suit you, you return it.
of cheaper material—may sell for $13 at a store like H&M.
But I almost always get things that are stylish and
look great on me. And some of the items are really
We’re buying more.
unique, too—things you never see in a store.
Shopping for stylish clothes is cheaper than ever. It’s easier,
Max: So when does your next box come?
too. A person can learn about something on social media
Carla: It’d better come soon. I have a job interview next
and then buy it online right away. For these reasons—and
week, and I need something new!
because fashion trends change quickly—people now buy
almost twice as many clothes as ten years ago, especially
casual items. Because of this, fast-fashion companies are
Track 31
also making a lot more clothing. One of the world’s most
popular clothing items is the cotton T-shirt. People buy
Conversation 1
almost two billion every year.
David: Good afternoon and thank you for calling Aziza.
This is David speaking. How can I help you?
A lot goes in the garbage.
Elaine: Yes, hi. I have a dinner reservation for this evening
People are buying more clothing, and they are throwing
at eight.
away a lot, too. In the US alone, Americans put over eight
million tons of clothes in the garbage each year because the
David: Your last name, please?
items are worn or they aren’t in style anymore.
Elaine: It’s Mitchell. Elaine Mitchell.
David: Yes, Ms. Mitchell. Here you are. You have a
Many shoppers don’t worry about throwing away
reservation for six people tonight at eight o’ clock.
inexpensive items. But doing this has a cost, experts say.
For example, it takes 2,700 liters of water to make one
Elaine: Right. I’m calling because we’d like to come in a
cotton T-shirt. But after a few uses, we throw it away. Also, a
little earlier. Is that possible?
lot of fast-fashion clothing is made of plastic. This hurts the
Conversation 2
planet.
Woman: Hello. Blue Bird Cleaners.
Luckily, things are changing. Some stores—like Zara and
Jose: Yeah, hi. I dropped off some pants on Monday to
H&M—now take people’s used clothes and then resell or
be dry cleaned, but I’ve lost my ticket. Could you
recycle them. This way, the items don’t go in the garbage.
tell me, when will they be ready?
All clothing stores should do these things, says one expert.
Woman: Your name, please?
But for now, it’s a good start.
Jose: Jose Martino.
Track 30
Woman: Just a moment, Mr. Martino . . . Hello? Yeah,
they’re ready today. Come by anytime.
Max: Hey, I like your shirt. You look great in it!
Carla: Oh, thanks. It’s new.
Conversation 3
Sarah: Good morning, Dr. Chu’s office. This is Sarah.
Max: Where did you get it?
Leo: Uh, yeah, good morning. I’m calling to make an
Carla: I use this website. Look, it’s here on my phone. The
appointment to see the dentist.
site helps you choose clothes.
Sarah: Okay, um, have you seen Dr. Chu before?
Max: Hmm. Cool! How does it work?
Leo: Yes, I have. My name’s Leo Kwan. K-W-A-N.
Carla: Well, first, you answer questions about your size and
your favorite styles—you know, are you more of a
Sarah: Thanks. Okay, Leo, let’s see what Dr. Chu has
casual person or do you like to get dressed up?
open . . . Can you come in tomorrow at ten?
© National Geographic Learning
Max: Then what?
Conversation 4
Carla: A personal shopper chooses clothes and shoes
Bea: Hello?
for you.
Mona: Hi, Bea.
Max: The personal shopper chooses the clothes and
Bea: Oh, hi, Mona. What’s up?
shoes, not you?
Mona: Are you driving to school this morning?
Carla: Right. Then you get the items in the mail. The things
Bea: Yeah. Do you need a ride?
in the box are a surprise. It’s fun.
Mona: Yeah, but not to class. I have a doctor’s
Max: How often do you get things?
appointment near school. Could you drop me off
Carla: I get a box with new clothes every two months. But
there? The office is near school.
some people get things every two weeks.

T290 | STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 290 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 449 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

on foot can be challenging. It also has heavy traffic that
Track 32
moves slowly, so it isn’t a very walkable city.
1. Could you open the window, please?
Near La Paz is the city of El Alto, 13,615 feet (4,150 m) above
2. Could you drop me off at school?
sea level. Every day, people take the bus between the two
3. Would you mind making dinner tonight?
cities. It costs five bolivianos (about fifteen cents) and takes
4. Would you pick up your socks from the floor?
about an hour. The buses run frequently, but they are crowded.
So the daily commute by bus can be a frustrating experience.
Track 33
Now there’s another way to travel from El Alto to La Paz. You
can catch a ride on Mi Teleférico, La Paz’s high-altitude cable
1. Could you turn down the TV, please?
car system. For only three bolivianos, you can float above
2. Could you make a dinner reservation for four people?
the city, watching as one neighborhood changes to the next.
3. Would you spell your last name, please?
After a peaceful ride in the high-tech car with eight or nine
4. Would you take notes for me in class today?
other passengers, you reach La Paz in ten to fifteen minutes.

Mi Teleférico is not like other transportation systems. First, it
Track 34
is very popular, so it doesn’t need any money from the city.
It pays for itself. Second, Doppelmayr, an Austrian company
Martina: Hello, Metro Salon. This is Martina.
that usually builds cable car systems for ski resorts, built the
Minh: Yeah, hi. I’d like to make an appointment for a
system in La Paz without destroying a lot of homes or green
haircut on Friday. Is Carlos working that day?
spaces. It was much easier than building a subway or train
Martina: I can help you with that! Let’s see . . . Yes, Carlos
system.
is available on Friday. Can you come in at 10:30?
Thanks to Mi Teleférico, locals now enjoy an easier commute
Minh: No, that time isn’t good for me. Do you have
to school or work. Tourists use it to visit difficult-to-reach
anything later in the day?
areas of the city. Everyone is happy to have this new and
Martina: Let me check. OK, how’s 4:15?
convenient way to get around the city.
Minh: That’s perfect.
Martina: Great. Now, I just need to get your name.
Track 37
Minh: It’s Minh Nguyen.
Welcome back to My Big Korean Adventure—the podcast
Martina: Could you spell your last name for me, please?
all about living in South Korea. This week I thought I’d take
you to one of the coolest places in Seoul called Hongdae.
Minh: Sure, it’s N-G-U-Y-E-N.
Hongdae is a neighborhood that has lots of stores,
restaurants, and clubs, and it’s easy to get to by subway or
Track 35
bus. You could also go by bike, but there’s a lot of traffic and
there aren’t many bike lanes for cyclists, so I’d definitely take
Making Appointments
the subway or a bus. Once you arrive, you can get around
I’m calling to make an appointment with a counselor.
on foot. It’s very walkable. Anyway, let’s go and take a look
I’d like to make an appointment with Dr. Smith.
around.
I’d like to make an appointment with the dentist.
So here we are in Hongdae. It’s about seven o’clock in the
I’m calling to make a doctor’s appointment.
evening, and it’s really busy. I’m standing in front of Hongik
I’d like to make a hair appointment.
University. It’s a great place to see a lot of art and street
I’m calling to reschedule my appointment.
performers.
I’d like to reschedule our meeting.
Also, gaming is huge in Korea, and in Hongdae, you can go
to Zzang Games. It’s a building that has hundreds of video
Scheduling the time
games on every floor.
Can you come in at 2:00?
Oh, and another thing that Hongdae is famous for is the
Could we meet at 2:00?
food. There are many international restaurants here, but I
How’s tomorrow at 2:00?
love eating the local street food; you might not know what
everything is, but you should try all of it!
© National Geographic Learning
That’s perfect.
That works for me.
Track 38
No, that time doesn’t work for me.
Host: Every year, thousands of nervous parents like you
No, that day doesn’t work for me.
plan to send their children to a new school. Maybe
it’s an easy decision—to use the school nearest
Track 36
to your home. Or maybe your children are going
to go to the same school that you went to. Or
Flying to Work
perhaps you’re going to find a new type of school,
La Paz, in Bolivia, is a city that is nearly 12,000 feet (3,650 m)
and your children are going to have a very different
above sea level. The streets are steep, and getting around
type of education from the one you had as a child.

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T291

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 291 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 450 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Kai: Well, good luck. And if you want to talk, just call me.
If you are looking for a really unique school, then
maybe it’s here, on the island of Bali, in Indonesia.
Li: Thanks, Kai. I really appreciate it.
Today, I’m visiting a school where the classrooms
are made from bamboo and everywhere you look,
Track 40
you are close to nature. This is Green School Bali.
Responding to bad news
Over 400 boys and girls of all ages study here,
starting from ages three to six in the early years,
I’m sorry to hear that.
seven to eleven in primary, ages eleven to fourteen
That’s too bad.
in middle school, and up to eighteen years old in
How disappointing.
high school.
You must be disappointed.
But instead of me telling you about it, let’s meet
one of the students. This is Wayan. He’s in high
Offering to help
school in the twelfth grade. Wayan, can you tell us
If you want to talk, just call me.
about a typical day at Green School Bali?
If there’s anything I can do, just let me know.
Wayan: So, first of all, I catch the special bio bus to school.
Host: Sorry, what kind of bus?
Track 41
Wayan: A bio bus. It runs on used cooking oil. And then
1.
our first lesson is usually in our classroom, which
A: What are your plans for tonight?
is among the trees. After a break, we have a math
lesson. It might be in the classroom, or sometimes,
B: I’m going to study.
if it isn’t raining, we do the lesson outside by the
2.
river. After that, we have lunch at school. The food
A: We need your application by 5:00 pm today.
often comes from our school garden where the
students learn how to grow plants. Then, in the
B: Sorry, I didn’t know that! I’ll do it right now.
afternoon, we have more lessons or we work on
our special project.
3.
A: When’s your interview tomorrow?
Host: What kind of project?
B: It’s going to start at 9:00 am.
Wayan: Well, all high school students work on the
Greenstone Project. We choose a topic or a global
4.
problem and research it. Then, before graduation,
A: Oh, no! I just spilled water all over the floor.
we give a presentation about our project. I intend
B: Don’t worry! I’ll get some towels.
to find new ways to reuse plastic.
Host: Wow! That sounds amazing, Wayan. Good luck
5.
with your project and thanks for telling us about
A: What are your plans for this afternoon?
your day.
B: I’m going to do some homework.
Something special about Green School Bali is that
6.
it has an environmental mission. For example, the
A: Who’s writing your letter of recommendation?
school is powered by solar energy and everything
B: Hmm, I’m not sure . . . Oh, I know! I’ll ask Mr. Stuart, my
is recycled. Like other schools, students take
math teacher.
classes, such as mathematics, reading, and
science, but they also take “Green Studies” in
which they learn about the natural world, the
Track 42
environment, and where their food comes from.
Life’s Essential Questions

Track 39
Wait, what?
In this question, wait reminds us to stop and think. Before
Kai: Hey, Li. How’s it going with the grad school
we make an important decision, we need to understand the
applications?
situation fully.
© National Geographic Learning
Li: Not so great. I didn’t get into Tsinghua University.
How can I help?
Kai: Oh, no! I’m sorry to hear that.
When someone needs help, it’s good to ask, How can I
Li: Yeah, and it was my first choice.
help? Then the other person can give you a specific answer,
Kai: You must be disappointed. What are you going to do
and you will be more useful.
instead?
What truly matters?
Li: Well, I applied to one other school, but I’m waiting to
Sometimes it’s hard to make a decision. When this happens,
hear back from them.
it helps to ask yourself: What is most important?
Kai: I’m sure you’ll get in.
Li: Thanks. If not, I’ll take a gap year and apply again next
In a Harvard University graduation speech, speaker James
year.
Ryan talked about “life’s essential questions.” By asking

T292 | STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 292 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 451 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Professor Walker: Sure, what about it?
these simple but important questions, we can make better
choices in our lives. We can help others, too, Ryan believes.
Alice: I’m thinking of going to New York, to
But how can these questions actually help us in our
study English.
everyday lives? Here is one example:
Professor Walker: So, you won’t be here next term?
Imagine. It’s the summer after graduation, and you’re doing
Alice: Right. I always planned to visit New
an interesting internship at a company you like. The only
York someday, you know, like after
problem is the internship is part time and unpaid. But, after
graduation from college. But my best
a month of working hard, your boss offers you a full-time
friend is going in January, and I’d like to
job. You are excited about the opportunity until your boss
go with her.
tells you the starting pay. You stop and think, Wait, what?
Professor Walker: So how long is the program in New
The pay is very low. You really want the job, but you wonder,
York?
How will I support myself? It won’t be easy.
Alice: It starts in January.
Your boss gives you a few days to think over the offer, so
Professor Walker: That’s pretty soon—in about two
you talk to a friend about it. You tell your friend you’re not
months.
sure whether you should accept the low pay or quit and
Alice: Right, and then the program finishes in
apply for other jobs. You’re even considering taking some
May, and I can come back to college in
time off to do something else, like travel. Your friend listens
September.
and asks, How can I help?
Professor Walker: OK, I don’t think it’ll be a problem. We
You ask your friend for some advice and she suggests
just have to do some paperwork.
that first you ask your boss for higher pay. However, if
the company can’t pay more, she says that you should
ask yourself, What truly matters? What is most important
Track 44
right now: the money or the opportunity to work for this
Woman A: In El Salvador, a girl’s fifteenth birthday is very
company? How will your choice help you in the future? You
important. It’s the day she celebrates becoming
thank your friend and smile because you know that with
a woman. When I turned fifteen, my family had a
the help of “life’s essential questions,” you’ll make the right
big party for me.
decision.
Woman B: The second Monday in January is an important
day in Japan. We call it “Coming of Age Day.”
Track 43
When you turn twenty, you’re officially an adult
1.
in Japan. Anyone who turned twenty in the last
year celebrates on Coming of Age Day.
Joe: What are you doing, Tina?
Tina: Working on an application.
Track 45
Joe: For what?
Tina: School.
Woman A: In El Salvador, a girl’s fifteenth birthday is very
important. It’s the day she celebrates becoming
Joe: But I thought you graduated last May.
a woman. When I turned fifteen, my family
Tina: I did. But I’m thinking about getting a master’s
had a big party for me. We call this party La
degree, in business.
Fiesta Rosa. Everything you wear to the party
Joe: Really? When are you planning to go?
is pink—a pink dress, pink shoes, pink flowers.
Tina: In the spring.
Anyway, the celebration lasts all day. In the
morning, you go to church. Then later there’s a
2.
big party either at your family’s house, or some
Jack: Hey, Natalia, how’s it going?
people rent a place. Lots of friends and family
members are invited, so you need a big space.
Natalia: Hi, Jack. Things are great! I just got a summer
Anyway, at the party, there’s lots of food and
internship!
dancing. And people give you presents—like
Jack: Congratulations! Where is it?
jewelry and clothes. I’ll never forget my party.
Natalia: It’s at a small marketing agency.
It lasted until four in the morning. I had such a
© National Geographic Learning
Jack: That’s perfect for you. Is it part time or full time?
great time.
Natalia: It’s full time, but I’m not going to make any money
Woman B: The second Monday in January is an important
at first. I’m hoping that eventually it will turn into a
day in Japan. We call it “Coming of Age Day.”
paid position.
When you turn twenty, you’re officially an adult
in Japan. Anyone who turned twenty in the
3.
last year celebrates on Coming of Age Day.
Alice: Professor Walker?
So, what happens? Well, most people get
Professor Walker: Yes? Oh, hi Alice. Come in. What’s up?
dressed up. Girls wear traditional kimonos and
guys wear dark suits, though some also wear
Alice: Thanks. Umm, I’d like to talk to you
traditional clothes. Then, in the morning, you
about next term.

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T293

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 293 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 452 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

and your parents go to City Hall. There’s a big
Track 49
ceremony—for you and all the other twenty-
Get Ready to Get Messy
year-olds in your city. Important leaders give
speeches. After the ceremony, you get a small
The Orange Festival
present and take a lot of pictures. Then later,
It’s a cool February afternoon in the small town of Ivrea,
you get together with your friends. Most people
in Northern Italy. The streets are usually quiet, but today
go to parties or nightclubs. I remember when
they’re full of people as the four-day Orange Festival begins.
I celebrated Coming of Age Day. I had a lot
The “Carnevale di Ivrea” is over 900 years old. It celebrates
of fun.
the story of a girl named Violetta. She killed the town’s evil
leader and freed the people of Ivrea. The festival remembers
the fight that took place between the people of Ivrea and
Track 46
the evil leader’s soldiers. In the original fight, people threw
Omar: Hey, Lane. My classmate Sayuri is having a party
rocks at the soldiers. Today, participants throw oranges at
this weekend.
each other. Before they start, a young woman dressed as
Lane: Really?
Violetta speaks to the people and gives them candy. After
that, the orange fight begins! To participate, you need to
Omar: Yeah, it’s a costume party.
join a team—you can be on a team of “freedom fighters” or
Lane: Sounds like fun.
soldiers. If you don’t want to fight, you must wear a red hat.
Omar: Do you want to go with me?
Then no one will throw oranges at you. When the fighting
ends, there are oranges everywhere!
Lane: Are you sure? I don’t really know Sayuri.
Omar: No problem. She said I could invite a friend.
The Festival of Color
Lane: OK, then. I’d love to go. When exactly is it?
The Festival of Color, also called Holi, is a popular spring
celebration from India. It takes place every year, usually in
Omar: On Saturday night.
early or mid-March, and lasts at least two days. In Indian
Lane: Wow, that’s the day after tomorrow! I need to get a
mythology, an evil woman tried to kill a young man named
costume.
Prahlad by burning him in a fire. Because Prahlad was a
Omar: Me, too. There’s a good place near here that rents
good person, he escaped from the fire unhurt. Today, people
them. Let’s go there after school.
remember this event by lighting large fires in the streets on
Lane: Sounds good!
the night before Holi. The fire is a symbol of the end of all
bad things. The next day, Holi celebrates the start of spring
and a new beginning. To celebrate, people gather in the
Track 47
streets, and when they throw colored powder into the air,
A: What do you want to do this weekend?
they say “Holi Hai!” Others throw colored water or powder at
each other. After the festival ends, the streets are filled with
B: I don’t know. Maybe see that new sci-fi movie. Do you
color and smiles!
want to come with me?
A: Sorry, but I don’t really want to see that movie.
Track 50
Track 48
Rosa: And now for our final story of the evening, we
turn to Stuart Kaplan, reporting live from the West
Inviting someone to do something
African country of Cameroon—where every year,
Do you want to go with me?
usually in February, the Race of Hope takes place.
Would you like to go with me?
Stuart: Yes, hello, Rosa. I’m standing here in the town of
How’d you like to go with me?
Buea, Cameroon, where the Race of Hope is about
to begin. This year, five hundred and fifty people are
Accepting or refusing an invitation
competing in the race.
Sure, I’d love to.
Rosa: And what’s the distance?
That sounds great.
I’m sorry, but I can’t. I have plans.
Stuart: It’s a thirty-eight kilometer race. The competitors
© National Geographic Learning
run to the top of Mount Cameroon, which is the
Unfortunately, I can’t. I have to work.
highest mountain in western Africa and . . . an
I’d love to, but I’m busy then.
active volcano. When they reach the top, they run
I’d love to, but I’m busy that day.
all the way back down again. I’m standing here
with one of the participants in today’s race. So,
When refusing an invitation, it’s polite to give a simple
what’s your name and where are you from?
explanation.
Esther: I’m Esther, and I’m from Nairobi, Kenya.

Stuart: Is this your first time at the race?

T294 | STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 294 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 453 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

least that was the beginning of the story. Now they
Esther: Oh, no. I’ve attended the race many times before.
are in Madrid.
It’s a tradition for me and my family. But this year,
for the first time, I’m running in it!
Kim: Is it a true story?
Jamal: No! We make it up.
Stuart: That’s great. Do you think you’ll win?
Kim: Well, it sure sounds fun.
Esther: I’m going to try, but it’s a difficult race. A lot of
Jamal: It is. And I need some help. Are you creative? I’m
people start but can’t finish it.
trying to think of something good for the next line of
Stuart: Well, good luck! First prize is over sixteen thousand
the story.
US dollars.
Esther: Yes, it’s a fantastic prize! I’m going to do my best!
Track 52
Stuart: The good news is that after the race is over, all
the competitors can enjoy the rest of the weekend
Mia: Wow, I just heard an amazing story.
with their family and friends. Every year, the town of
Nico: Yeah? What’s it about?
Buea has a festival during the weekend of the race
with music, dancing, sports, and local food. The
Mia: It’s a story about a waitress. She had a lot of money
whole town is getting ready to throw a big party!
problems.
Nico: That sounds hard.
Track 51
Mia: It is. Anyway, she found out she was losing her
apartment. She had to move, but she didn’t have
Kim: Hi Jamal, how are you doing?
enough money.
Jamal: Pretty good, Kim. How are you?
Nico: Oh, no!
Kim: Fine, thanks. Hey, what are you working on? Is that
Mia: As it turns out, she told one of her customers about
your homework?
the situation. This customer was special. He came to
Jamal: No, actually, I’m working on a short story.
the restaurant often and knew the waitress well. And
Kim: Really? I didn’t know you were a writer!
he wanted to help her.
Jamal: Well, I’m not. Not exactly.
Nico: So what did he do?
Kim: What do you mean?
Mia: One day he paid his bill and left the restaurant, as
usual. When the waitress went to collect her tip, she
Jamal: This is a different kind of story. It’s done through
found a $3,000 tip . . . on a bill of $43.50!
crowdsourcing.
Nico: Are you serious?
Kim: Crowdsourcing? What’s that?
Mia: I am. It’s a true story. And in the end, the waitress
Jamal: It’s a story that a large group of people work on at
was OK.
the same time. We’re all writing it together.
Nico: What a heartwarming story. I’m glad it had a happy
Kim: I don’t get it. Who is writing it? Do you know these
ending.
people?
Jamal: No, we don’t know each other. But I can see their
writing online.
Track 53
Kim: OK. So you don’t know them, but you work
Tell a story
together online. How does that work?
I just heard an amazing story.
Jamal: It’s like this: usually when you write a story, you
I just heard an interesting story.
work alone, right?
I just heard an unbelievable story.
Kim: Right.
It’s a story about . . .
Jamal: Well, in this case, many people are working on the
One day . . .
same story at the same time. Anyone can log on to
their computer and contribute. Even you could do it!
Later, . . .
Kim: Do you get paid to do it?
After that, . . .
Jamal: No, we do it for fun! And I’m really hooked on the
As it turns out, . . .
© National Geographic Learning
story now, and each time I go online, I add one
In the end, . . .
sentence to the story. Then someone else adds
another sentence a few minutes later.
Show interest and find out what happened
What’s it about?
Kim: Oh, I see. So gradually you build the story together.
Oh, no! Really?
Jamal: Exactly. And the story is completely unpredictable.
That’s what makes it interesting.
So what did he do?
Kim: Cool. What’s the story about, anyway?
So what did she do?
Jamal: It’s a crime story, but don’t worry. It’s not violent. It
What happened next?
tells the story of two detectives working in Rome. At
Are you serious?
Wow!

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T295

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 295 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 454 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Cinderella character. Settareh, a Middle Eastern Cinderella,
Track 54
goes to a New Year’s party. And Cinderella is not always
Jenna: My name’s Jenna, and I was in a car accident.
a woman. In an Irish story, a young boy, Becan, marries a
Man: Really? When?
princess and lives happily ever after.
Jenna: Yesterday—after school.
A present-day Cinderella
Man: Where?
There are also modern retellings of the Cinderella story. In
Jenna: Near school.
one, a girl named Cindy Ella is a student at a Los Angeles
high school. Her fashionable stepmother and older
Man: What happened exactly?
stepsisters care a lot about shopping and money. Cindy
Jenna: Well, I was driving and someone hit my car.
doesn’t. When she writes a letter to her school newspaper
Man: What color was the car?
against a school dance, she becomes very unpopular with
Jenna: Blue.
both students and teachers. Only her two best friends—and
later the school’s most handsome boy—support her.
Man: Are you sure?
Jenna: Yeah, definitely.
Why we love her
Man: Who was driving the other car?
Why is the Cinderella story so popular and found in so many
cultures? There are a few reasons. First of all, it’s a romantic
Jenna: A woman in her thirties.
story, which is a popular style. Also, Cinderella is a kind girl
Ryan: My name’s Ryan, and I was in a car accident.
with a hard life. People want her to succeed. But maybe
the most important reason is that, in the Cinderella story, a
Man: Really? When?
person struggles, but overcomes the difficulties in the end.
Ryan: Um, let’s see . . . yesterday.
That’s a story that everyone—boy or girl, young or old—
Man: Where?
wants to believe can happen.
Ryan: It was near here, near school.
Man: What happened exactly?
Track 56
Ryan: Well, this person hit my car.
The Efik people come from the area of southern Nigeria and
Man: What color was the car?
southwestern Cameroon in central Africa. They have a rich
Ryan: What color? Um, let’s see . . . It was blue. No,
tradition of storytelling in the Efik language, and there are
wait! Black.
many ancient stories. Here’s an Efik story from centuries ago
that explains the weather.
Man: Who was driving?
Ryan: Who was driving?
The Story of Lightning and Thunder
Man: Yeah, the car that hit you.
There was a time when Thunder and Lightning were two
animals that lived in a town. Thunder was an old mother
Ryan: Um . . . Umm . . . it was a man.
sheep and Lightning was her son, a ram. The son, Lightning,
Man: How old was he?
was often angry and violent. He burned down houses
Ryan: How old? Um . . .
and farms—and sometimes, he even killed people. While
Lightning was doing these things, his mother ran quickly
after him and shouted angrily, “Stop, Lightning! Stop what
Track 55
you are doing!” Sometimes Lightning stopped suddenly, but
The Cinderella Story
sometimes he ignored his mother and became more violent.

A famous fairy tale
After a while, the local people complained to their king about
The Cinderella story is a famous one. Cinderella was living
Lightning. The king sent the old sheep and her son away
happily with her family when her mother died. Her father
from the town and into the forest. But Lightning still started
remarried. Cinderella’s new stepmother and two stepsisters
fires in the trees, and then the fire reached the farms. So the
treated her poorly. She had to wear old clothes and work
people complained to the king again, and in the end, the
hard while the sisters wore beautiful clothes and had fun.
king sent Thunder and Lightning into the sky, away from the
Earth. And even today, you can still see Lightning in the sky
You know the rest of the story. A good fairy helped
when he is angry. And often, a few seconds later, you will
© National Geographic Learning
Cinderella. She turned Cinderella’s old clothes into a
hear his mother, Thunder, telling him to stop.
beautiful dress. Cinderella went to a party, and a prince fell
in love with her. Cinderella left the party quickly and didn’t
Track 57
tell the prince her name. But she did leave a glass slipper,
and the prince used that to find her. Eventually, Cinderella
1. The son, Lightning, was often angry and violent.
and the prince married and lived happily ever after.
2. His mother ran quickly after him and shouted angrily,
“Stop, Lightning! Stop what you are doing!”
One story, many cultures
That’s one telling of the story, but the Cinderella fairy tale is
3. After a while, the local people complained to their king
found in many different countries with some differences. In
about Lightning.
an African version, for example, there is one stepsister, not
4. And often, a few seconds later, you will hear his mother,
two. In a version from the Philippines, a forest spirit helps the
Thunder, telling him to stop.

T296 | STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 296 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 455 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Track 58
Track 60

Interviewing for a job
1.
A lot of people think I have a fun and easy job, but I’ve been
Starting the interview
in this position for about five years, and I’m telling you, it’s
Thanks for coming in today.
harder than it looks. For one thing, you’re away from home
It’s great to be here. / My pleasure.
a lot—as many as 20 days a month. You have no social life
because you’re traveling so much, and your work schedule
Discussing abilities and experience
is always changing, so you have to be flexible. It’s also
Tell me a little about yourself.
hard on your health. You have to stand a lot, and you’re
I’m a student at . . .
often serving people or helping them with their luggage. For
I’m majoring in . . .
example, I was on a 16-hour trip last week, and sometimes
it can be hard to be personable with passengers when
Can you work independently?
you’re so tired! Also, with the international time changes, it’s
Yes, I can. For example, . . .
difficult to get the right amount of sleep.
Are you punctual?
2.
Yes, I am. For example, . . .
I’ve been in this job for two years, and I really love it. When I
finished college, it was hard to get this job because it’s very
Do you have any experience writing a blog?
competitive. But I did some volunteer work in college, and
Yes, I write one for my school newspaper now.
I made some useful contacts with a charity organization.
At first, I had a job in an office, and I learned a lot about
Ending the interview
how things worked before I got my first position in another
Do you have any questions?
country. Now, I work with a team that organizes the
Yes, I do.
transportation of food, and we’re in charge of the supplies
No, I don’t think so.
when they arrive. In this job, you need to be responsible
because a lot of people need the food and supplies you
When can you start?
help provide. You also need to be courageous sometimes
Right away.
because you might work in dangerous places. But I really
On Monday.
feel like I’m making a difference.
Next week.
3.
I’ll be in touch.
My job sounds quite adventurous, but actually, I haven’t
I look forward to hearing from you.
traveled to that many different countries. A lot of the time,
I’m traveling around my own country and reporting on local
vacation destinations. My work is very independent: I’m my
Track 61
own boss, and I make my own plans. To do this job well,
you really need to be able to find good stories. After all, there
The word “for” is often pronounced (fur) when it is
are thousands of travel articles about the same places, so I
unstressed. Listen to the question and answer and then
always have to find something new and original to say.
repeat.

A: How long have you worked there?
Track 59
B: I’ve worked there for two years.
Simon: So, Ines, tell me a little about yourself.
A: How long have you worked there?
Ines: Well, I’m a first-year student at City University, and
B: For two years.
I’m majoring in journalism.
Simon: And you’re working for your school’s online
Track 62
newspaper, right?
1. I’ve lived in the same city for years.
Ines: Yeah. I write a blog. It focuses on pop culture,
fashion, music—stuff like that.
2. He hasn’t been in class for a week.
© National Geographic Learning
Simon: How long have you worked there?
3. I haven’t eaten for six hours.
Ines: For about six months. I post an entry once a week.
Simon: Excellent. But if you work here, you’ll need to post
Track 63
every Tuesday and Friday—by noon.
Asher Jay: Creative Conservationist
Ines: No problem. I’m very punctual.
Can your passion also be your profession? For “creative
Simon: Great. Now, we need someone right away. When
conservationist” Asher Jay, the answer is yes. She is an
can you start?
artist, writer, and activist. She uses her art to tell people
Ines: On Monday.
about issues that affect animals around the world, like the
Simon: Perfect. Let me talk to my boss, and I’ll be in touch
illegal ivory trade and habitat loss.
with you later this week.

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T297

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 297 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 456 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Asher was born in India in 1985 and was raised around the
Gino: Well, the work can be very demanding.
world to be a global citizen. She now lives in New York. She
Sometimes, for example, a film director will
has been passionate about wildlife since she was a child. As
say he wants one thing. Then he changes his
a girl, she often found sick animals and brought them home
mind; then he changes his mind again. It’s
to care for them. Her mother taught her that all life has a
hard. You really have to be flexible and patient.
right to exist.
Interviewer: It sounds like it.
Gino: Yeah, and the job can be exhausting, too. I’ve
Now, working as an artist, everything Asher does in her
worked all night many times, but in the end,
creative work is to help conservation. For example, she
I helped to make the movie, and like I said,
spent two months traveling in Africa, and she collected
then it’s all worth it.
garbage on her travels. She took the garbage back to New
York and used it to create artwork about how the growth of
Interviewer: So, if a person wants to be a storyboard
human cities is affecting wildlife. As well as paintings, she
artist, what advice would you give?
has created animated films about pollution in the oceans.
Gino: I’d say, first, be good at your art, of course.
Second, learn everything you can about
Asher loves what she does, but working with nature can still
movies and moviemaking. And finally—and
result in unexpected and hazardous experiences. One night,
maybe most important—work hard and have
while she was in Africa for work, she woke up and heard
a good attitude. If you do these things, you’ll
lions walking around her tent. Asher was scared, but the
never be out of a job.
experience was still rewarding. “Nature is a . . . tutor,” she
says, “and the learning never stops.”
Track 66
On a typical day, Asher spends a lot of time working on
her art, which includes paintings, billboards, films, and
Interviewer: So, if a person wants to be a storyboard
sculptures. But anything can happen, and each day is
artist, what advice would you give?
unpredictable, so Asher has to be flexible. “I never know
Gino: I’d say, first, be good at your art, of course.
what’s next for me,” she explains.
Second, learn everything you can about
movies and moviemaking. And finally—and
Asher Jay has turned her love for art and animals into a
maybe most important—work hard and have
career. She says there are many ways to turn what you care
a good attitude. If you do these things, you’ll
about into a job. So, what are you passionate about?
never be out of a job.
Track 64
Track 67
Interviewer: So, before we take questions from the
Speaker 1
audience, tell us a little about your job, Gino.
My name is Sonia. After graduating with a degree in
Gino: I’m a storyboard artist.
business administration, I spent two years building
Interviewer: And what exactly do you do?
experience as an assistant at an advertising company.
Gino: Well, storyboard artists can do lots of different
Then, I decided to improve my foreign language skills, so
things. In my case, I work with film directors
I’ve recently completed a six-month French program in
to make movies.
Paris. Now, I’m looking for a position in the US. I’d like the
Interviewer: How exactly?
opportunity to develop business between your company
and overseas markets using my knowledge of other
Gino: Well, I create a picture story of the movie on
cultures.
the computer. These pictures show the events
in the film. The director and actors use these
Speaker 2
pictures to understand and make the movie.
Uhh, hello. Yeah, so, I’m Kyle. And, um, I’m not very happy
in my job at the moment, so I, uh, thought it’d be good to
Track 65
do this one. And I’m good with computers, so I think that’s
useful, well, probably useful anyway. And uh . . . oh yeah,
Interviewer: Interesting . . . So, what do you like most
the money’s way better with this job. Uh, what else do you
about your job?
want to know?
Gino: Well, I guess the most rewarding part is that
© National Geographic Learning
I’m helping to make a movie.
Track 68
Interviewer: How many films have you worked on?
1.
Gino: Eight, including the one I’m working on now.
Man: Hello, can I speak to Dr. Allen?
I work on all different kinds—action movies,
Woman: Sorry, he’s not in. Can I take a message?
romantic comedies, science fiction.
Interviewer: Wow! That’s cool.
2.
Gino: Yeah, I really enjoy it. I’m always learning
Man: I think you’re on mute. I can see you, but I can’t
something new.
hear you. Click the microphone on the bottom
right of the screen.
Interviewer: So, what’s the hardest part?

T298 | STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 298 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 457 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

3.
Track 70
Ethan: Hi, this is Ethan. Sorry I missed your call.
A: My number is 555-6749.
4.
B: 555-6749?
Chris: Hi, Julie.
A: Yes. 6-7-4-9.
Julie: Hi, Chris. Is Margo joining us?
Chris: Yes, she is, but she just texted me to say she’s
Track 71
having problems logging on. Oh, here she comes!
1.
Julie: Hey, Margo! . . . Margo? Oh, she’s frozen.
Nancy: My username is Nancy_p12.
5.
Woman: Did you say d12?
Woman: You’re breaking up. I can’t hear you.
Nancy: No, p12. That’s p as in Paul.
Man: I’m on a train, and the signal is bad.
2.
6.
Man 1: My username is @photoguy.
Man: OK, so let me get some of your details. Your first
Man 2: @photoguy?
name is Jane. What’s your last name?
Man 1: That’s correct.
Woman: It’s Banner.
Man: Did you say Vanner or Banner?
3.
Joy: My email address is joym@sf.edu.
Woman: Banner. B as in boy.
Man: Was that joy n at sf.edu?
Joy: No, it’s joy m as in Mary.
Track 69

1.
Track 72
Man: Hello, can I speak to Dr. Allen?
Lisa: Hello?
Woman: Sorry, he’s not in. Can I take a message?
Celia: Lisa? Hi. It’s Celia.
Man: No, thanks. I’ll call back later.
Lisa: Oh, hey, Celia. How’re you doing?
2.
Celia: Pretty good. So, are you ready for the big
Man: I think you’re on mute. I can see you, but I can’t
test tomorrow?
hear you. Click the microphone on the bottom
Lisa: Almost, but I have one question . . . Oh,
right of the screen.
Celia, can you hang on? I’ve got another call
Woman: Sorry, I always forget to click it.
coming in.
Celia: Yeah, no problem.
3.
Ethan: Hi, this is Ethan. Sorry I missed your call. Please
Lisa: Hello?
leave me a message, and I’ll call you back.
Prof. Larson: Yes, hello. May I speak to Lisa Sanchez,
please?
4.
Lisa: Speaking.
Chris: Hi, Julie.
Prof. Larson: Lisa, this is Professor Larson. You left me a
Julie: Hi, Chris. Is Margo joining us?
message earlier today. You had a question
Chris: Yes, she is, but she just texted me to say she’s
about tomorrow’s exam.
having problems logging on. Oh, here she comes!
Lisa: Oh, right. Professor Larson, could you hold
Julie: Hey, Margo! . . . Margo? Oh, she’s frozen.
for a moment?
Chris: I’ll ask her to leave and try again.
Prof. Larson: Of course.
Lisa: Hello, Celia? Can I call you back? I have to
5.
take the other call.
Woman: You’re breaking up. I can’t hear you.
Celia: Sure. Talk to you later.
Man: I’m on a train, and the signal is bad.
© National Geographic Learning
Woman: Do you mind if I call you again later?
Track 73
6.
Using the Phone
Man: OK, so let me get some of your details. Your first
Asking for someone and responding
name is Jane. What’s your last name?
Hi, Lisa?
Woman: It’s Banner.
Hi. Is Lisa there?
Man: Did you say Vanner or Banner?
Can I speak to Lisa, please?
Woman: Banner. B as in boy.
Hello. May I speak to Lisa, please?
Man: OK, and what’s your phone number?
Could I speak to Lisa, please?

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T299

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 299 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 458 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

This is Lisa.
Track 75
Speaking.
Automated Voice: Hello, your call is important to us. A
customer service representative will be
Asking for identification of caller
with you in a moment. Hello, your call
Who’s calling?
is important to us—
May I ask who’s calling?
Representative B: Hello, this is Rachel speaking. I’m so
sorry you had to wait. How can I help
Asking someone to wait
you this morning?
Hang on.
Customer: Hello, I ordered a package from your
Can you hang on for a moment?
website. It was supposed to arrive two
Can you hang on for a second?
days ago, but I haven’t received it yet.
Would you hold for a moment?
Anyway, I found your number on the
Could you hold for a second?
website.
Representative B: OK, I’m happy to help you with this.
Taking a message
May I ask who’s calling?
Can I take a message?
Customer: It’s Mark Jennings.
May I take a message?
Representative B: Jennings?
Would you like to leave a message?
Customer: Yes. That’s right.
Representative B: OK, Mr. Jennings, can I have the order
Track 74
number?
Automated Voice: Hello, your call is important to us. A
Customer: Yes, it’s A I three five five four.
customer service representative will be
Representative B: So that was A as in America, I as in
with you in a moment. Hello, your call
Italy, three five five four.
is important to us. A customer service
Customer: That’s right.
representative will be with you in a
moment. Hello, your call is important
Representative B: Right. I don’t see it on my screen . . .
to us—
Oh! Here it is. It looks like there was a
problem, and the package is still at our
Representative A: Hello.
warehouse. I’m really sorry about this.
Customer: Oh, hello.
I’m going to call our warehouse now,
Representative A: Yes?
and then I’ll call you back right away
Customer: Hi. I, uh, I ordered a package from your
with an answer. Do you mind if I get a
website. It was supposed to arrive
contact number from you?
two days ago. Anyway, I found your
Customer: No, not at all. My number is (725) 954 . . .
number on the website.
Representative A: I see. What’s the order number?
Track 76
Customer: It’s AI3554.
Have Smartphones Changed Our Lives For Better Or For
Representative A: Sorry, was that A E or A I?
Worse?
Customer: A I. A as in America. I as in Italy.
1. What are the different ways we use smartphones?
Representative A: OK. And what was the number
Smartphones have changed the way we live. Billions of
after that?
people around the world are using their phones to make
Customer: 3554.
calls, send texts, and check email. Many of them are also
Representative A: Um. I don’t see it on my screen. Let me
booking car rides, comparing product reviews, following
ask someone . . . Hi. What’s your last
the news, and posting on social media. Some people prefer
name?
to do their banking on their phones, and others want to
Customer: It’s Jennings.
check how many steps they are taking each day in order to
stay healthy.
Representative A: What?
© National Geographic Learning
Customer: Jennings.
2. What are the disadvantages of smartphone use?
Representative A: OK, I think it’s at our warehouse so you
These benefits, however, come at a high cost to our mental
need to call them. The number is on
and social lives. We keep checking our phones more and
the website. Bye.
more throughout the day, and this is making us increasingly
distracted. As we become addicted to our phones, we
Customer: But I . . .
spend less time in the “real” world and more time in the
virtual world. We often don’t pay attention to what is
happening right in front of us.

T300 | STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 300 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 459 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Conversation 3
3. How do smartphones affect us mentally?
Man: Hey, Veronica. Where’s Manny? Is he coming to
Researchers are familiar with this trend. They are studying
the party?
smartphone use and our ability to complete tasks. In one
study, they asked three groups of participants to complete a
Veronica: Yeah, I think so. He said he was coming, but
math problem and some other tasks. The first group agreed
he’s still not here.
to keep their phones in another room. The second group
Man: I’ll text him.
put their phones in their pockets. The researchers allowed
Veronica: Good idea.
the third group to place their phones on their desks. The
participants did not use their phones during the study. At the
Man: Oh, he replied.
end of the exercise, the first group did better than the others.
Veronica: That was fast.
Man: Yeah. He says something else came up, and he
4. How do smartphones affect us socially?
can’t come to the party after all.
In a second study, participants ate a meal with friends or
family at a restaurant. One group left their phones on the
Veronica: Are you serious?
table during the dinner. Another group put their phones
Man: Don’t be angry. You know how Manny is.
away. At the end of the meal, the first group reported that
Veronica: I know; he does this all the time. We make plans
they felt distracted by their phones and enjoyed eating their
to do something, and then he texts at the last
meal less.
minute and says he can’t do it. He never thinks
about anyone else.
5. Is it time to take a break from your phone?
One result of all this is that more and more people are
choosing to turn off their phones for long periods of time. For
Track 78
example, some are taking “digital-free weekends” and going
Today we will continue our study of history and technology.
two days with no phone or internet. They prefer spending
Remember that last week we were talking about
more of their free time with friends and family or doing
predictions—about how difficult it is to predict “the next big
exercise outside, rather than staring at a screen. People who
thing” in technology. Many people have tried to predict the
do this report feeling calmer, with less stress in their lives.
future, and, well, let’s just say it hasn’t gone well.
Why not try it this weekend and see what happens?

For example, there’s the telephone. When it first appeared in
Track 77
the nineteenth century, many people thought it wouldn’t last.
In 1876, a worker at the British post office said this: “The
Conversation 1
Americans have need of the telephone, but we do not.” He
Girl: Hello? Oh, hi, Tony. How are you? Oh, no! Well, are
basically said that the telephone was unnecessary. He didn’t
you OK? Yeah, I know. That class is really hard and
think it was reliable at all. It was a terrible prediction—terrible
I—
because it was incorrect. Today, it’s estimated that there are
Man: Excuse me, miss?
about 5 billion smartphones in the world. We cannot live
without cell phones: they have become an indispensable
Girl: Um . . . yeah?
part of our daily lives.
Man: I’m trying to have a meal and talk to my friend, but it’s
really hard to hear over your conversation.
Then there was this prediction in 1903: “The horse is here
to stay, but the automobile is a fad.” A banker said this
Girl: Oh, I’m sorry. I didn’t realize I was being so loud. I’ll
because he thought that cars would not be successful, even
be quieter.
though people were starting to use them. However, there
Man: Thanks a lot.
are now more than 1 billion cars on the roads worldwide.
They are a convenient and reliable form of transportation for
Conversation 2
many. We can all agree that the automobile has been very
Man: Have you seen the photos Connor posted from
successful indeed.
the party?
The third prediction on our list was made in 1948. And it
Woman: No. Are they good?
was made by a radio announcer who was talking about
Man: Yeah, and there are some funny ones of you.
television. She famously said, “Television won’t last. It’s just
Woman: What? Let me see . . . Ugh. Why did he post this
a flash in the pan.” No one knows for sure, but experts say
© National Geographic Learning
picture of me?
there are more than one-and-a-half billion TV sets currently
in use around the world. TVs have become an affordable
Man: Relax. It’s not that bad. It’s just kind of silly.
device found in many homes today.
Woman: Yes, it is! And twenty people have already
commented on this one photo, and they’re not
Here’s one more old prediction that will make you laugh! In
saying nice things.
1995, an engineer predicted that, “The internet will fail.” We
all now know that this was a terrible prediction. Today the
Man: Ignore them.
internet is indispensable for over 4.5 billion people, and the
Woman: I can’t ignore them. I mean, it’s not OK to do this.
number is growing.
Man: Then just tell Connor to delete the photos.
Woman: Good idea. He’d better do it.

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T301

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 301 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 460 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

a professional adventurer, writer, and filmmaker. She lives
Track 79
in Scotland but spends most of her time away from home.
Alan: Hey, Kim. I saw your sister on social media the other
When Jenny first started traveling, she used to pack a lot
day. She’s really changed a lot.
more; now, she only packs things that are important for
Kim: Yeah? Why do you say that? She still looks the same.
her survival, except for one device: her camera, for taking
photos of all the amazing places she explores.
Alan: Yeah, but now she’s got all these friends, and she’s
really funny. She used to be so different—you know,
kind of shy.
Track 83
Kim: A lot of people say that about my sister. They think
How Smart Is Your Home?
that she’s this quiet person, but, actually, she’s very
outgoing.
In the past, people used to buy household appliances to
Alan: Really?
make their lives easier. For example, it used to take a long
time to clean floors and carpets, but then the vacuum
Kim: Yep. Once she feels comfortable with you, she’s really
cleaner made it easier and faster. This is still true today, but
friendly, and she talks a lot.
now, many household objects are also “smart.” In other
Alan: Wow, I had no idea!
words, they are connected to the internet and can report
on your life. For example, when you switch on a smart TV,
Track 80
it often knows what you are watching and when. Or, if you
have a device that turns on your music or looks up the
Offering a Counterargument
weather for you, then it’s probably collecting some of your
personal information. Two technology reporters, Kashmir Hill
Stating what other people think
and Surya Mattu, decided to find out what living in a smart
A lot of people say that she’s shy.
home is really like.
Some people think that she’s shy.
Kashmir’s Story
Explaining what you think
Kashmir turned her one-bedroom apartment in San
But, actually, she’s very outgoing.
Francisco, US into a smart home. She connected lots
But, in fact, she’s very outgoing.
of appliances to the internet, including her lights, coffee
maker, baby monitor, vacuum cleaner, TV, toothbrush, and
In reality, she’s very outgoing.
even her bed. What were the advantages? Kashmir could
But, the truth is she’s very outgoing.
watch her house when she wasn’t there. Her toothbrush
The fact is she’s very outgoing.
sent her messages if she forgot to brush her teeth. If she
But, the reality is she’s very outgoing.
was cold at night, her bed turned up the heat. And she
could use her smartphone to switch on her robot vacuum
cleaner. However, there were also disadvantages. Not
Track 81
everything was user-friendly. When she asked her coffee
In American English, the pronunciation of used to, spelled
machine to make a cup of coffee, sometimes it didn’t
with a letter “d,” and use to, spelled without a letter “d,”
understand her instructions. When Kashmir got a bad
sound the same. The /d/ sound at the end of used usually
night’s sleep, her bed told her she slept poorly, which was
disappears in spoken English. Listen to the sentences and
very annoying! And to control everything, she had to log in
repeat.
to thirteen different apps.

1. People used to write more letters.
Surya’s Story
Meanwhile, Kashmir’s coworker Surya plugged a router into
2. I didn’t use to shop online.
all of Kashmir’s devices so he could see the information
3. Did you use to be shy?
coming from her smart home. He could see every time a
4. Phones used to be more reliable.
device was talking to servers outside the home and sending
out personal information about Kashmir’s life. He could tell
5. I didn’t use to eat meat.
when the lights were switched on and off. He knew when
she got up, when she brushed her teeth, and which TV
Track 82
shows she liked. All the smart objects in her home sent this
© National Geographic Learning
kind of information back to the companies that produced
Meet Jenny Tough. Yes, that’s her real name. Tough by
them. In other words, Kashmir’s smart home had the power
name, tough by nature. Currently, she’s planning to run
to tell other people a lot of information about her private
across a mountain range on every continent. As a young
life. As a result, Kashmir and Surya started to wonder how
child, she used to live in Canada, but at the age of ten,
“smart” it really was to live in a smart home!
Jenny and her family went to live on a boat in the Caribbean.
On the boat, she didn’t use to go to school but studied
from books with her sister. Later, as an adult, she returned
Track 84
to Canada, and every day, she used to work in an office.
Interviewer: Dr. Spenser, thanks for joining us today.
Eventually, she quit her job and rode her bike over one
thousand miles around the Rocky Mountains in the US.
Dr. Spenser: My pleasure.
Since then, she’s never stopped traveling, and now she’s

T302 | STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 302 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 461 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Interviewer: So, what exactly are scientists at your
Paula: Actually, yes, that’s why I’m calling. Would you mind
company doing?
watering my plants while I’m away?
Dr. Spenser: We’re developing a tool to help blind people
Lewis: Not at all.
see as much as possible. I’m talking about
Paula: They have to be watered once a week.
people who could see at one time but then
Lewis: Got it.
lost their vision.
Paula: Oh, and there’s one more thing. I’m expecting a
Interviewer: You mean people who lost their sight
package in the mail next week.
because of an accident or other problem.
Lewis: I can pick that up for you.
Dr. Spenser: Exactly.
Paula: Oh, could you? That would be great.
Interviewer: So, tell us about this tool you’re working
Lewis: Paula, you’re going to have so much fun!
on now.
Paula: I think so, too. I’ll tell you all about it when I get back!
Dr. Spenser: Well, it’s very advanced technology. We start
by putting a device in the blind person’s
brain. It’s very small, of course.
Track 86
Interviewer: OK.
1. He has to lock the front door.
Dr. Spenser: And the person wears glasses that have a
2. She has to get a new passport.
very small camera inside.
3. We have to check in online.
Interviewer: So, how do the glasses and the device in the
4. They don’t have to pack a travel adapter.
brain work together?
Dr. Spenser: Well, a blind person puts on the glasses and
“looks at” something—for example, this pen.
Track 87
And the camera in the glasses takes a picture
Esther: We have to leave in thirty minutes. Have you
of the pen. Then, the camera sends the
finished packing?
picture to the device in the person’s brain.
Mina: Yes, I have . . .
Interviewer: And then the person can see the pen!
Esther: You look worried. What’s wrong?
Dr. Spenser: Yes! This whole process happens very
Mina: I can’t remember where I put my passport.
quickly, of course.
Esther: Oh, no!
Interviewer: Wow! Now, using this tool, will a blind person
be able to see as well as they used to?
Mina: It’s here somewhere.
Dr. Spenser: No, they won’t have perfect vision, but they
Esther: When did you last have it?
will be able to see many things. This tool is
Mina: About ten minutes ago. Let me think . . . Oh, there
still being developed, but for some of the
it is. I put it on the dresser.
people in our study, it’s changed their lives.
Esther: What a relief!

Track 85
Track 88
Lewis: Hello?
Saying you’ve forgotten something
Paula: Hi, Lewis. It’s Paula.
I forgot + noun
Lewis: Hey, Paula. How are you?
I forgot my bus pass.
Paula: I’m getting excited. I can’t wait to escape this cold
New York winter!
I forgot + infinitive
Lewis: I bet. And in Hawaii, it’s going to feel like summer.
I forgot to empty the trash.
So, are you ready for your big trip?
I don’t remember + gerund
Paula: Not yet. I still have to pack my suitcase.
I don’t remember turning off the lights.
Lewis: Well, when’s your flight?
I can’t remember where + clause
Paula: It’s not until tomorrow afternoon, actually.
© National Geographic Learning
I can’t remember where I put my car keys.
Lewis: Oh, OK then. You still have plenty of time.
Paula: Yes, I do. But tomorrow morning is going to be busy.
Track 89
Lewis: Why is that?
Going Solo is the Way to Go!
Paula: Well, I’d like to clean the house before I go. And I
need to check in online and choose our seats.
How do you usually travel? Do you normally go somewhere
Lewis: Oh, are you traveling with other people?
with your family, a close friend, or a group of friends? Do
Paula: Yes, I’m going with two friends.
you like joining a tour group where someone else makes the
schedule?
Lewis: That’s great. So, is there anything I can help you
with while you’re away?

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T303

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 303 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 462 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

Have you ever thought about “going solo”? In recent
8 billion people, hear their stories, and experience different
years, more and more people have started striking out on
ways of life.
their own. A recent travel report found that a quarter of all
3.
travelers are planning a solo trip this year, and interestingly,
Currently, I have about eight trips that I am planning. I’m
84% of solo travelers are women.
going to visit Peru, Nicaragua, Mexico, Canada, and Chile
You may think that traveling alone would be scary or boring,
as well as Texas, Florida, and Hawaii in the United States.
but according to people who do it, that’s not exactly true.
Many of these trips are for work, others to visit family, and
Though solo travelers have to plan their own itineraries and
others are for my own personal interest.
deal with travel requirements like applying for visas alone,
they often have positive experiences and make new friends.
4.
Many enjoy booking the flights and hotels of their choosing,
I always have to do some research first. What will the
and when planning and packing for the journey, they only
weather be like? What have I got to pack? Is there anything
need to worry about their own wants and needs.
particularly cool or special that I must see in this place? Or
delicious food that I need to taste? My advice is to prepare
There are many different things you can do on a vacation
for everything and then just go with the flow. For me,
alone. Some solo travelers use the time to learn or practice
there will always be too much I want to see, do, try, and
an outdoor activity, such as golf, mountain climbing, or
experience, and not enough time to do it all. As a result,
scuba diving. You can even go and stay on a ranch and
planning ahead helps me focus on the things that I think I
learn how to ride a horse. Why not pretend to be a cowboy
will enjoy most.
or cowgirl for a day?
5.
You may not believe this, but some travelers like to study
Of course! In fact, I’ve never had a journey where everything
on their vacations. They even go to “vacation college” at
went 100% perfectly to plan! Some of the worst situations
a university or join a research team as a volunteer worker.
included being on an airplane that had to make an
This allows them to “play scientist” for a week or two while
emergency landing. Another time, I was on a boat that
helping someone with his or her project. It can be hard
started sinking in Mexico. And while I was living in Miami,
work, but it’s also very satisfying.
we often had hurricanes and bad weather, so my flights
For solo travelers of different ages and genders, there are
were regularly delayed, rerouted, or canceled. But these
many travel options. There are tours for women only and
events don’t often ruin trips for me. They are all a part of
for people over the age of sixty. And, of course, there are
the adventure story that you can tell your family and friends
trips for singles who are looking to meet someone special.
when you come home.
One company offers trips that focus on fine dining—there is
time for sightseeing during the day and for sharing delicious
Track 91
meals with new friends at night.
Interviewer: Do you travel a lot?
So, for your next vacation, if you haven’t considered going
solo, think about it.
Andrés Ruzo: Yes, traveling has always been a very big
part of my life. When I was a child, my
Bon voyage!
parents used to take my sisters and me on
trips during the school holidays. We visited
Track 90
other family members living in different parts
of Peru, Nicaragua, and the United States.
1.
I remember my parents used to say, “Travel
Yes, traveling has always been a very big part of my life.
is the best education.” Now, I’m older, and I
When I was a child, my parents used to take my sisters and
still think this is true. For the past few years,
me on trips during the school holidays. We visited other
I have been traveling quite a bit—sometimes
family members living in different parts of Peru, Nicaragua,
as many as three times per week!
and the United States. I remember my parents used to say,
Interviewer: Why do you like traveling?
“Travel is the best education.” Now, I’m older, and I still think
this is true. For the past few years, I have been traveling
Andrés Ruzo: Wherever you travel on the planet, there is
quite a bit—sometimes as many as three times per week!
always something new to explore. Traveling
is like stepping into the pages of a book, or
© National Geographic Learning
2.
walking onto the screen of a documentary—
Wherever you travel on the planet, there is always something
it gives you the ability to enter a new world.
new to explore. Traveling is like stepping into the pages of
I also think it can change you and give you
a book, or walking onto the screen of a documentary—it
a whole new perspective because through
gives you the ability to enter a new world. I also think it can
travel, you can connect with people from
change you and give you a whole new perspective because
across the globe. Think about it: right now,
through travel, you can connect with people from across the
at this moment, almost 8 billion people
globe. Think about it: right now, at this moment, almost
across the planet are living and experiencing
8 billion people across the planet are living and experiencing
their loves, fears, hopes, and dreams—just
their loves, fears, hopes, and dreams—just like you are in
like you are in your life. If you travel, you can
your life. If you travel, you can connect with some of those
connect with some of those 8 billion people,

T304 | STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 304 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 463 ────────

Student’s Book Audio Scripts

hear their stories, and experience different
much I want to see, do, try, and experience,
ways of life.
and not enough time to do it all. As a result,
planning ahead helps me focus on the things
Interviewer: Are you planning a trip at the moment?
that I think I will enjoy most.
Andrés Ruzo: Currently, I have about eight trips that I am
Interviewer: Have you ever had a journey where things
planning. I’m going to visit Peru, Nicaragua,
went wrong?
Mexico, Canada, and Chile as well as Texas,
Florida, and Hawaii in the United States.
Andrés: Of course! In fact, I’ve never had a journey
Many of these trips are for work, others
where everything went 100% perfectly to
to visit family, and others are for my own
plan. Some of the worst situations included
personal interest.
being on an airplane that had to make an
emergency landing. Another time, I was
Interviewer: How do you normally prepare for trips?
on a boat that started sinking in Mexico.
Andrés Ruzo: I always have to do some research first. What
And while I was living in Miami, we often
will the weather be like? What have I got
had hurricanes and bad weather, so my
to pack? Is there anything particularly cool
flights were regularly delayed, rerouted,
or special that I must see in this place? Or
or canceled. But these events don’t often
delicious food that I need to taste? My advice
ruin trips for me. They are all a part of the
is to prepare for everything and then just go
adventure story that you can tell your family
with the flow. For me, there will always be too
and friends when you come home.

© National Geographic Learning

STUDENT’S BOOK AUDIO SCRIPTS | T305

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 305 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 464 ────────

A Quick Guide to Using the World Link Videos

The World Link Videos

The World Link video program provides stimulating and exciting video material, offering both audio
and visual input as well as opportunities for follow-up conversation practice. Each World Link unit
features five video segments: the in-unit Warm-Up and Global Voices videos, as well as Good
Morning World, City Living, and Global Viewpoints.

• The Warm-Up videos were curated for English language learners from a variety of sources, including
National Geographic and YouTube. They feature stories from people and cultures around the world.

• The Global Voices videos feature personal stories from National Geographic Explorers and other
change makers who are working to make the world a better place.

• Good Morning World is a morning show program featuring interviews, discussions, and
demonstrations in the style of talk shows. The hosts, Jay Jones and Kim Kimal, welcome many
guests and discuss various topics associated with the themes and language presented in the
World Link Student’s Books.

• City Living is a series of original dramatic episodes, filmed in an engaging sitcom-like style.
They focus on the lives of six young people from a variety of international backgrounds living
in New York City. Each episode reinforces and expands upon the language presented in the
corresponding unit of the Student’s Books.

• Global Viewpoints are real-life interviews in which a wide range of students and professional
people from around the world present their personal views on issues related to unit topics.

The World Link Video Worksheets

The Warm-Up video program is included as an introduction to each unit’s theme. Careful scaffolding
is provided in the Teacher’s Book so that teachers have the support they need to successfully
teach each video. Additionally, the video exercises are fully extractable from the student book unit,
making it ideal for classroom use or, in a flipped-classroom model, independent student work at
home. The Global Voices videos are also included in the Student’s Book. These exercises are also
extractable with teacher support provided in the Teacher’s Book. The 36 printable video worksheets
that correspond to the three remaining video segments are available on My World Link Online and
the teacher companion site as a downloadable resource. The worksheets are designed to facilitate
effective use of the World Link videos in the classroom or outside of class, for homework or extra
practice. There are three worksheets per unit, one for each video segment. The first worksheet
focuses on Good Morning World, the second on City Living, and the last on Global Viewpoints.
The worksheets integrate pre-viewing, viewing, and post-viewing exercises into complete
video-based lessons.

Using the Good Morning World Segments
© National Geographic Learning
The Good Morning World worksheet includes two viewing exercises and one communicative exercise.

• Viewing exercises (1A / 1B) focus on video comprehension by asking students to watch and
listen for specific information. Exercise formats vary from unit to unit, but typically take the form of
true / false, multiple choice, circling, checking, or sentence-completion exercises.

• Communicative exercises (1C) encourage students to apply in the classroom what they learned
in the video. These exercises are intended to motivate students to think about the practical
applications of the topics and the language presented in the video.

T306 | A QUICK GUIDE TO USING THE WORLD LINK VIDEOS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 306 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 465 ────────

A Quick Guide to Using the World Link Videos

Using the City Living Segments

The City Living worksheet contains three exercise types: pre-viewing, viewing, and post-viewing.

• Pre-viewing exercises (2A) usually take the form of a schema-generating discussion question
(“Are you nervous at job interviews? Why or why not? Tell a partner.”) or a brainstorming exercise
(“Why do people use smartphones so often? List all the reasons you can think of.”). Pre-viewing
exercises are most effective when presented in class as discussion-generating exercises and
sufficient time is allowed for all students to present and discuss their views.

• Viewing exercises (2B) focus on video comprehension. As with Good Morning World, students
are asked to watch and listen for specific information. Discussion is invited by having students
compare answers with a partner. More involved classroom discussion may be stimulated by
asking students to give reasons for their answers.

• Post-viewing exercises (2C) encourage students to express their personal opinions and reactions
to the characters and events in the City Living episode. As with the viewing exercises, more
elaborate discussion can be encouraged by asking students to provide reasons for their
answers. In some cases, post-viewing exercises can be used as the basis for optional writing
assignments. For example, students can be asked to write a paragraph explaining one or all of
their answers.

Using the Global Viewpoints Segments

The Global Viewpoints worksheet contains two exercise types: two viewing exercises followed by a
communicative exercise.

• Viewing exercises (3A / 3B) are similar to those found in the Good Morning World and City
Living worksheets. In the Global Viewpoints worksheet, these exercises typically take the form
of true / false, multiple choice, circling, checking, or sentence-completion exercises.

• Communicative exercises (3C) are always fun or game-like exercises designed to stimulate
conversation in pairs, groups, or the whole class. Exercises often take the form of opinion
surveys and discussions that encourage students to share personal experiences, ideas, and
feelings related to the themes explored in the unit.

General Suggestions for Using the World Link Videos

• Familiarize yourself with the videos. Before showing a segment to the class, view it yourself and
try doing the exercises. In this way, you will be able to anticipate questions students may have
about the segment.

• Allow students to view the videos more than once. In order to carry out these viewing exercises,
students may need to view an individual segment several times. Play the segment as often as
students feel is necessary to complete the exercise.

• © National Geographic LearningClarify directions for viewing exercises. Focus students’ attention more effectively on the task at
hand by making sure they understand the directions before you play the video segment.

• Know your video equipment. Practice with the computer or DVD player you will be using in class
so that you can easily locate and play the appropriate segment.

A QUICK GUIDE TO USING THE WORLD LINK VIDEOS | T307

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 307 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 466 ────────

A Quick Guide to Using the World Link Videos

Using Video in the Classroom
Video is one of the most useful aids available for language teaching. It is motivating. It shows how
people speak to each other. It is excellent for teaching both behavior and body language. It shows
the culture of the people using the language. It is one of the best ways of communicating meaning
and stimulating student discussion. But how can you exploit these advantages most effectively in the
classroom? There are several useful techniques you can use to add variety to your classroom lessons
and to make more effective use of video in the classroom.

The following are descriptions of five basic techniques for using video in the classroom: silent viewing,
pause / freeze frame, sound only, split viewing, and normal viewing. These tactics have been incorporated
into the Teacher’s Book scaffolding for the Warm-Up videos and new Global Voices videos. With these
descriptions are suggestions for specific teaching exercises based on each technique.

1. Silent Viewing

This technique, which involves playing the video with the sound off and showing only the images,
can be used to stimulate student interest and language use about what is being shown on the
screen (rather than what can be heard) or to get students to focus on what is being said through
the use of a variety of guessing and prediction tasks. Playing a short video sequence with the
sound turned off not only helps students concentrate on the situation, but it also stimulates their
imagination. Some classroom exercises based on the Silent Viewing technique are:

• What are they saying?
Show a dramatic scene with short exchanges of dialog, where the action, emotions, setting, and
situation give clues to what is being said by the characters. Students watch the scene with the
sound off and guess or predict what the characters are saying. Then they watch the scene with
the sound on and compare their guesses and predictions with what the characters actually say.

• What’s happening?
Write the following three questions on the board or dictate them to students:
Where are the people?
Who are they?
What’s happening?
Students watch a dramatic scene and use the questions as a guide to help them guess the gist
of the situation rather than the exact words used by the characters.

• What’s the conversation?
Students watch a dramatic scene, preferably one involving a conversation between two people.
Then they work in pairs and try to write an appropriate dialog to accompany the pictures.
Students practice their dialog in pairs and then take turns performing the dialog in front of the
class. Finally, students watch the scene again, this time with the sound on, and compare their
dialog with the dialog that is actually used in the video.

• What did you see?© National Geographic Learning
Students watch a video sequence and then write a descriptive commentary on what they see.

T308 | A QUICK GUIDE TO USING THE WORLD LINK VIDEOS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 308 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 467 ────────

A Quick Guide to Using the World Link Videos

2. Pause / Freeze Frame

This technique, which involves using the pause button to stop the video while keeping a still
picture frozen on the screen, can be used with either the sound on or off. The Pause / Freeze
Frame technique is useful for concentrating on a single image or sentence in a video sequence.
It is ideal for studying language in detail. For additional language reinforcement, it can be used in
conjunction with displaying the subtitles that accompany each World Link video sequence. Some
classroom exercises based on the Pause / Freeze Frame technique are:

• Listen and say
Students watch a video sequence twice with the sound on. During the first viewing, they simply
follow the story. During the second viewing, use the pause function to stop the video from time
to time so that students can repeat the line just spoken. Encourage students to use the same
intonation and stress patterns as the speakers. Offer opportunities for individual students to
repeat the lines, as well as for the whole class to repeat the lines in chorus.

• Tell me what you see
Play a video sequence with the sound off and pause at a convenient point to show a still image.
Students work in pairs and take turns describing what they see. As a variation, instead of using a
single image, you can pause at several different points where specific items come into prominence.

• Guess the next line
Students watch a dramatic sequence, preferably one involving a conversation between two
characters, with the sound on. During the viewing, pause the video at several different points,
always just after one character has asked a question or said a sentence to which the second
character is expected to respond. Students guess what the second character will say in
response to what the first character has said. After eliciting suggested responses from students,
play the video and allow students to hear the actual response used in the video. After going
through a sequence in this manner, play the entire sequence again straight through without
pausing so that students have a chance to follow the dialog spoken at its natural pace.

3. Sound Only

This technique involves playing the video with the sound on and no picture. (Cover the screen
with a cloth, a coat, or a large piece of paper.) With Sound Only, students listen and concentrate
on what they hear, rather than what they see. As with Silent Viewing, the creation of an information
gap stimulates the imagination and student language use. Some classroom exercises based on the
Sound Only technique are:

• Describe the person
Choose a video sequence in which one character speaks continuously for at least 10 or 15
seconds. On the board, write a list of words that students are likely to need to describe the
character; for example: old, young, tall, short, nice, mean. Play the video sequence with sound
only. Students listen and write down the words they feel describe the character. Students then
© National Geographic Learning
work in pairs or small groups, comparing and giving reasons for their answers. Elicit some
answers (and reasons for them) from the class. Then replay the sequence with sound and picture
so that students can modify or confirm their original answers.

• Describe the scene
Select a video sequence in which the sound gives some clues as to the location, number of
characters, and general situation of the scene. Write the following questions on the board or
dictate them to students:
Where does the scene take place?
How many characters are in it?
A QUICK GUIDE TO USING THE WORLD LINK VIDEOS | T309

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 309 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 468 ────────

A Quick Guide to Using the World Link Videos

How are they dressed?
What are their ages?
What is their relationship?
What are they doing?

Play the sequence with sound only. Students listen and then work in pairs or small groups asking
and answering the questions and giving reasons for their answers. Finally, play the scene again,
this time with sound and picture. Students discuss the questions again, taking into consideration
the new information they now have from the pictures.

4. Split Viewing

The technique of Split Viewing involves having some students see a video sequence and hear
the sound, while other students only hear the sound. Some exercises based on the Split Viewing
technique are:

• Tell me what happened
This exercise is a lot like a game. Divide the class into pairs. One student in each pair is a
listener who faces away from the screen. The other student is a watcher who faces the screen.
Play the video. Listeners listen only. When the sequence ends, the watchers have three minutes
to tell the listeners what they saw. At the end, encourage one or two listeners to sum up the story.
Then replay the episode for all students to watch. At the end, the listeners and the watchers
compare their earlier versions with what actually happens in the video.

• Find out what happened
This exercise follows a procedure similar to that described above, but instead of watchers telling
listeners what happened, the listeners have to ask the watchers questions to find out what
happened. After listeners have interviewed watchers, call on listeners to report the information
they find out. This is all useful practice in asking questions and reporting information.

5. Normal Viewing

As you would expect, the technique of Normal Viewing involves watching the video with sound
and picture, the way most people normally watch TV or a video. There are numerous exercises
based on this technique, and only a few of them are listed here. The most common and popular
techniques that involve Normal Viewing are:

• Role-play
Select a video sequence with a conversation involving two or three characters. Divide the class
into groups composed of the same number of students as there are characters in the video
sequence. Play the sequence twice. Students’ task is to study the situation in the video and
then role-play the same situation using whatever words or other means they wish. After students
have viewed the sequence twice, allow the groups five minutes or so to practice role-playing the
situation in the video. Finally, groups take turns performing their role plays for the class, using
© National Geographic Learning
their own words, actions, and gestures. Role-playing is an excellent way of having students use
the language they have learned. With role plays, students concentrate not just on the language
people use, but also on how they behave.

• Change!
This is a variation of role-playing (above). In large classes, each group prepares the role of one
character. It then nominates one of its members to play that character. During the role play,
members can be substituted by the teacher calling “Change!” or by another group member
tapping the role-player on the shoulder and replacing him or her.

T310 | A QUICK GUIDE TO USING THE WORLD LINK VIDEOS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 310 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 469 ────────

A Quick Guide to Using the World Link Videos

• Behavior study
In this exercise, students watch a dramatic sequence, imagine a similar situation in their own
country, and examine the differences in behavior. Select a video sequence that illustrates two or
three incidents of behavior that are culturally different from students’ own culture. Ask students
to observe the video carefully. Play the video sequence and pause after each incident. Elicit
information about what the people in the video said and did and how this differs from students’
culture. For example, watch how the people greet each other. Play the relevant part of the
sequence and elicit from the class:
a. where the people are.
b. what they say.
c. what they do.
d. what their relationship is.
e. how they would act differently in students’ own culture, using students’ native language.

• Comparing situations
Two or three incidents or sequences can be contrasted to allow students to compare behavior
in two different situations (e.g., people greeting each other at a party and people greeting each
other at a business meeting).

• Prediction
Before having students watch a scene, tell the class where the scene takes place and ask them
to predict eight to ten things they might see in the video. For example, for a scene that takes
place in a kitchen, students might predict the following: an apple, a cake, a cook, a stove, a
table, a spoon, a sink, a chair, a refrigerator. Play the video. Students watch and call out the
names of the predicted items as they see them in the video.

• Thinking and feeling
As much as the words we use, our body language—posture, gestures, and facial expressions—
conveys what we really think and feel. An interesting and valuable exercise involves describing
what characters in a video are thinking and feeling, using clues from the dialog and the body
language they use. To carry out this exercise, start by pre-teaching a number of words students
can use to describe feelings exhibited by a character or characters in the video; for example,
angry, irritated, furious, curious, surprised, disappointed, unhappy, worried. Students’ task is
to watch the video and name the feelings being expressed. Play the video, stopping at crucial
points to focus on a character. Ask students which word describes the character’s emotions or
feelings at that point and have them give reasons for their answers.

• Telling the story
Students can watch a video and then produce an oral or written summary of the story.
Alternatively, they can watch a video and make up a story about the events leading up to what
they saw on the video or about what may happen next. Using video to get students to make up a
story is an excellent way of getting students to recycle language they have learned and use it in
© National Geographic Learningoriginal ways for their own purposes.

A QUICK GUIDE TO USING THE WORLD LINK VIDEOS | T311

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 311 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 470 ────────

Warm-Up Video Scripts

UNIT 1
Shabana Basij-Rasikh: There were literally no schools for girls. My parents have always made it
known to me and to my siblings that education is their number one priority for us. Six percent of
women in Afghanistan have a college degree. To be a part of that small minority, I feel extremely
lucky and privileged. But at the same time, how did I get to be so lucky? Maybe there was a reason.
I realized that I needed to become an educator. I’m the president and co-founder of SOLA, School of
Leadership Afghanistan. It’s the first girls’ boarding school in Afghanistan. Their education has a real
purpose, not just for them to have a good job, good income, but their education is also for them to
serve their country, to be responsible global citizens.

Teacher: (to students) Exactly, nine times four.

Shabana Basij-Rasikh: The process of empowerment has to be initiated from within. We create a
safe space for these girls to be able to grow into their confident selves.

(to students) There you go! There you go! See, you can all do it.

Student 1: If I can’t be a doctor, I want to be a teacher of science.

Student 2: I want to be an explorer. I want to be so many things, but it’s really hard to decide.

Student 3: I want to be a doctor and a teacher.

Student 4: I want to prove that girls can do everything.

Woman 1: OK. What subject? History?

Woman 2: History, yeah.

Shabana Basij-Rasikh: They all come here to learn to become the future leaders of Afghanistan.
The solution to problems in Afghanistan have to come from Afghans. When you educate a girl, you
educate her family, her community, her society, and our world at large.

UNIT 2
Sally Rojas: Mole sauce is a very special Mexican dish. It’s really the go-to plate for any major
celebration. Our mole sauce started from just a family recipe; but now, we are making about 2,000
pounds of mole a day. We never thought in our wildest dreams that that was going to happen.

There are nearly one million Mexicans living in the tri-state area. Half of them are from Puebla, where
we are from, and they still want the flavor from back home.

Damiana Bravo (On-screen subtitles): That’s what we eat.

Sally Rojas: That’s what we eat.

My family has been producing mole at Mole Poblano La Asuncion for several years now. The business
is run by three generations, all of them women: my grandmother, my mother, and me.

Mole just means a sauce with a lot of ingredients: chilies and spices and sugar and chocolate. We
also use almonds, raisins, and sesame seeds. We toast all of those ingredients up and also have to
grind them as well. That’s when we put the pot up, and then we start heating the oil with some garlic
and with some onions. And when the onions and garlic are done, that’s when we start pouring in our
chilies, and that’s when we start putting in the other ingredients. You have to have very strong arms to
keep stirring that mole until everything is completely integrated into the sauce, until everything looks
dark. Our recipe, it takes about two days. It has to go through Grandma to get approved.
© National Geographic Learning
Damiana Bravo (On-screen subtitles): And, whatever is missing, we add.

Sally Rojas: My grandmother moved to New York from Piaxtla, Puebla, in the 1970s because she had
children and mouths to feed back home.

Damiana Bravo (On-screen subtitles): I came here and worked in the factory, but the money wasn’t
enough to pay rent. I started making [mole], and I told others in the factory that I made mole; and
people would tell me to bring them a pound. I would start preparing it like we used to prepare it in
Mexico.

T312 | WARM-UP VIDEO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 312 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 471 ────────

Warm-Up Video Scripts

Sally Rojas: And then word of mouth started increasing. Now, the mole sauce is being distributed in
bodegas and Mexican stores and restaurants here in New York and in the tri-state area, and also all
around the country. The longing for a little something of where you come from, I think, played in our
success here in New York City. It’s [as] authentic as it can possibly be.

The most important part of our day is at 2 o’clock in the afternoon when we have lunch together as a
family. I guess it’s a very big expression of how much we love our job, we love our mole, and we love
each other in the family. I guess that transfers also in the mole sauce that we make.

UNIT 3
Narrator: Meet Frane Selak, an elderly music teacher from Croatia and, depending on how you look
at it, either the world’s unluckiest or the world’s luckiest person to ever live. His unbelievable yet true
story begins on a cold winter’s day in 1962. Traveling from Sarajevo to Dubrovnik, a fault with the line
caused his train to jump the track and plunge into the freezing river below. While other passengers
were killed in the crash or drowned in the sinking wreckage, suffering a broken arm, Frane managed
to escape and swim to shore. Little did Frane know at the time, but this incident marked the beginning
of a series of bizarre events that would occur over the next 40 years of his life.

The following year, while traveling aboard a small plane bound for Rijeka, disaster struck for a second
time. Mid-flight, both engines stopped working, cabin pressure dropped, and the plane began losing
altitude. You might have thought that this was probably the worst thing that could have happened. But
you’d be wrong. While the plane plummeted towards the ground, a malfunctioning door blew off, and
poor Frane was sucked out of the aircraft. Tumbling through the air without a parachute, Frane must
have thought he was a goner. But while the plane crashed into the side of a hill killing all 19 on board,
Frane somehow managed to land in a haystack and survive with only minor injuries.

Another two years went by before Frane’s next brush with death. This time while traveling by bus, ice
on the road caused the wheels to lock up, and the vehicle skidded through the safety guard and into
the valley below. Four passengers were killed, but not Frane.

Tired (or perhaps terrified) of public transport, Frane began to travel mostly by car. But that didn’t
seem to help either. In 1970, his car engine burst into flames, but Frane was able to jump free before
it exploded. Then, three years later in 1973, the fuel pump in his new car ruptured, causing another
engine fire. But this time, the flames were blown straight at him through the air vents. Needless to say,
he survived this too, albeit with less hair than he began with.

In 1995, he survived being hit by a bus. And in 1996, a careless truck driver forced him off the side
of a mountain road. His car plunged 300 feet and exploded in a ball of flames. But Frane wasn’t in
it. Having somehow jumped out of the window, he was found clinging to a tree some way down the
cliff face.

Now Frane’s story may have ended there, as since then, Frane hasn’t been involved in any other
death-defying incidents. However, there is one last twist to this man’s incredible story. In 2003, at
the age of 72, Frane bought a lottery ticket, his first one in over 40 years. He won the jackpot, safely
securing his place as the luckiest unlucky person to ever live.

UNIT 4
Don Ghermezian: Best coaster in the world!

Reporter: These are the faces of one fearless family. Dropping straight down 141 feet at more than
© National Geographic Learning
62 miles per hour on the Shellraiser, a star attraction at the brand new American Dream. CEO, Don
Ghermezian, took me up, up, and around America’s newest playland.

Don Ghermezian: My office is cousin, cousin, cousin, cousin, brother, brother, brother, brother, father,
father, father, father.

Reporter: Ghermezian and his very large family, all 30 of them, are the innovators behind this new,
well, what should we call it?

You don’t like to call American Dream a mall, so what do you call it?

WARM-UP VIDEO SCRIPTS | T313

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 313 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 472 ────────

Warm-Up Video Scripts

Don Ghermezian: It’s an experiential center. It’s someplace where you can go and do just about
anything you could possibly imagine.

Reporter: In a time when “malls” are dying, are you worried at all?

Don Ghermezian: No. We’ve done it before.

Reporter: This is the same family-run company, Triple Five Group, behind Minnesota’s famed Mall of
America and Canada’s West Edmonton Mall. They both offer 75% retail and 25% entertainment, but
American Dream offers about 50% of each.

Don Ghermezian: If you think about it for a second, retail—it’s not a secret—it’s been a struggle. It’s a
struggle everywhere, right?

Reporter: You’re not deterred by that?

Don Ghermezian: No, we’re not deterred by it at all. I think that, you know, great tourist retail mega
centers like this, there’s always going to be need for them.

Reporter: American Dream cost about $6 billion to build and spans almost 70 acres. That’s about
53 football fields. Ghermezian says it boasts the largest indoor amusement park in the Western
Hemisphere, with five roller coasters and over 30 rides and attractions—with more on the way.
There’s also the world’s biggest indoor wave pool, an ice skating rink, and believe it or not, a
year-round ski slope.

UNIT 5
This video has no dialog.

UNIT 6
Text on screen: Not sure where you want to go to school?

You are not alone!

It’s a BIG decision.

Goals? Future? Career?

Explore all of your options!

A bachelor’s degree prepares you for a variety of careers.

It opens your mind to think big and can help you earn more money

Learn about many topics.

Go on to graduate school!

A 2-year college prepares you for exciting professions . . .

It can give you some time to save money, improve your grades, and it can lead to a 4-year degree.

Technical and trade schools train you for different careers.

You learn skills you can use as soon as you graduate.

For whatever school you choose, be sure to know the application process—they vary.
© National Geographic Learning
Chef, Lawyer, Biologist

Find the education that fulfills your dreams!

UNIT 7
Narrator: Few events bring people together like international sports competitions. All over the world,
fans come together to watch their favorite team on TV or online, and a few lucky ones get to see the
game live. You can feel the excitement in the air when the game starts, and when one team wins . . .
epic celebrations begin. How does it feel when our favorite team wins? Why do we feel like that?
International athletes are an inspiration to players and fans, so when they win, we feel like we’ve

T314 | WARM-UP VIDEO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 314 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 473 ────────

Warm-Up Video Scripts

won, too. When the team scores, everybody jumps off their seats while some fans beat drums or sing
songs. In many cities, people get together in a specific place to celebrate their team’s success. Every
time an athlete scores a point, it’s a win for the player, the team, and the entire country. The world
watches as one team moves closer to victory.

UNIT 8
This video has no dialog.

UNIT 9
Jeffrey Johnson: Oh, wow.

Felix von Aulock: So, if I . . . And I’m losing contact with my camera.

Jeffrey Johnson: Yeah, OK, well, you may be right, simply because . . .

Felix von Aulock: Ah, there. There we go.

Jeffrey Johnson: Bring her back home. I want [those] images.

Stephanie Grocke: It’s the reason why I got into geology, to be in the field. Combining the science
and the lab work and the analytical work with the field geology is what it’s really all about for me.

Bill Rose: These are not people who stay in their lab. These are people who really go out and look
at things and see what’s going on, and there’s no substitute for that. And that’s why this place is so
extraordinary.

Armando Pineda (On-screen subtitles): We are 100 meters below the summit of Santa Maria
volcano, the 5th highest volcano in Guatemala.

Jeffrey Johnson: This is the best place in the world to camp, literally. This volcano below us,
Santiaguito, is a laboratory volcano. It erupts every hour.

Bill Rose: You can get up high and look right down the gazoo! What a rare opportunity.

Jeffrey Johnson: It’s a straight shot down the scarp, so when you stand on those rocks down there,
you would see, like, one of the most marvelous volcanic phenomena on Earth.

Volcanologist 1: Did you hear anything in the night?

Volcanologist 2: No, I slept.

Volcanologist 1: I heard a few things, yeah.

Volcanologist 2: OK. . . Oh, boom! Boom, eruption!

Volcanologist 3: Yeah, it’s an eruption.

Volcanologist 4: Yeah, it’s 6, uh, 7:17.

Felix von Aulock: Some risks for geologists are mostly that you are outside, in the outdoors.

Yan Lavalle: Let’s face it, it’s really difficult. Volcanoes are mountains. For us, as a job, it’s like, is it the
volcano that’s dangerous? No, actually it’s the mountain itself. The mountain is really dangerous.

Nick Varley: These things are very unstable. So, you know, it’s not necessarily the case they’re just
going to keep growing up and up and up and up because they’re also going to be collapsing at the
© National Geographic Learning
same time.

Felix von Aulock: The hike goes through a little canyon. We know there is rockfall.

Stephanie Grocke: Loose rocks and a bit of rock climbing . . . But that was a great, great vantage
point as well.

Rudiger Wolf: You do things for a reason. There is a payoff, right? So, you want to go closer to the
volcano because there are better data.

Volcanologist 5: Are we going to go closer, or are we not going to go closer?

WARM-UP VIDEO SCRIPTS | T315

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 315 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 474 ────────

Warm-Up Video Scripts

Rudiger Wolf: The problem is that natural systems sometimes behave nicely, and they tell you they’re
becoming critical. Sometimes, it’s really difficult to tell.

Nick Varley: In most places of the world, it’s not a hazard to the general population. It’s a hazard
to volcanologists who are going close to the volcano to take samples or to do some kind of
measurement. It’s an impressive beast.

Filmmaker: Yeah, that’s wild.

Rudiger Wolf: I don’t have any specific [loud noise in background] ideas in, in mind. That wasn’t
the volcano!

UNIT 10
Caller: What do you call a group of cats?

Rosa Caballero-Li: Oh, let me check on that . . . It’s called a clowder of cats.

Narrator: If you have a question, any question, there’s a number you can call.

Rosa Caballero-Li: (917) 275-6975

Narrator: And a librarian at the New York Public Library will try to answer it for you.

Bernard: Hello, thanks for calling Ask NYPL.

Rosa: We have ten librarians on the team, and we answer any question that you might have over the
telephone. In the office today, we have Matthew, Bernard, Sarina, Diane, and me. Our department,
Ask NYPL, began in 1967. We started answering questions over the telephone, but people have been
reaching out to librarians for as long as there have been libraries.

Narrator: The New York Public Library has actually saved records of some of the more interesting
questions they’ve been asked over the years, like, “Is there a full moon every night in Acapulco?”
“Why do 18th century English paintings have so many squirrels in them, and how did they tame them
so they wouldn’t bite the painter?” “Are Plato, Aristotle, and Socrates one in the same person?” In a
world of Google, it’s a bit surprising to know that they get around 30,000 calls per year. My question
is: Why?

Rosa: Oftentimes people might not have access to the technology at home, and I honestly think some
just want somebody to talk to.

Narrator: So, the next time you have a question, like, “How many teeth does a great white shark
have?” You can call this number . . .

Rosa: (917) 275-6975

Narrator: . . . that’ll ring inside of this building, up on this floor, and maybe Bernard or Rosa will pick
up, and they’ll answer it for you.

Rosa: They have about 300 serrated teeth.

UNIT 11
Voiceover: Kids react to: technology! This episode: old computers!

Host: Today, you are reacting to this.
© National Geographic Learning
Brooke-Monaé: What is this?

Evan: What is that?

Lucas: Uh, a computer?

Derek: Oh! It’s an old computer.

Krischelle: It looks cool. I like pressing buttons.

Dylan: It’s huge; it’s very huge.

Jayka: If you don’t have a desk, where do you put this?

T316 | WARM-UP VIDEO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 316 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 475 ────────

Warm-Up Video Scripts

Dash: It is very hipster.

Voiceover: Question time!

Host: So, it is an old computer . . .

Jayka: Yes.

Host: . . . from the late 1970s or early ’80s. What do you think of it just from looking at it?

Tyler: Kind of like those old televisions that are, like, very boxy.

Host: Go ahead, turn it on.

Kacey: Um, on.

Sydney: Nothing’s happening.

Host: So you turned the monitor on, where else might an on switch be?

Brooke-Monaé: Uhh.

Dash: Oh, wait.

Brooke-Monaé: Hello?

Evan: How do I do this?

Host: It’s in the back.

Evan: Oh, I see where it is.

Kacey: Why does it have to make so much noise?

Tyler: And there’s nothing on the screen.

Dylan: It doesn’t look anything like what we have now.

Brooke-Monaé: Apps! Games! Websites! Everything. But this thing right here has nothing!

Host: Go ahead and try and do something on the computer.

Tyler: Nothing’s happening.

Kacey: Um. Uh, how do I do this?

Host: You can’t do anything, or even type, until you hit a reset button that’s on the computer.

Jayka: Ugh!

Krischelle: Reset!

Dylan: It’s very tedious.

Derek: It’s like pre-flight checks, kind of.

Brooke-Monaé: That is too many steps!

Host: How do you, like, do anything?

Krischelle: Maybe you press shift. OK, that didn’t do anything.

Jayka: Where’s the mouse?

Tyler: Where’s the mouse?
© National Geographic Learning
Host: Everything is just done with the keyboard.

Jayka: What?

Host: OK, now—

Lucas: No, no, no.

Host: OK, OK, OK.

Sydney: I’m going to write my name. It doesn’t matter.

Dylan: Are there any programs on it?

WARM-UP VIDEO SCRIPTS | T317

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 317 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 476 ────────

Warm-Up Video Scripts

Host: You had to type into the keyboard to get it to do anything.

Brooke-Monaé: So, if I type in games? Hit return . . . Error?!

Derek: Ah! Error.

Dash: This computer is an error.

Host: How do you go on the internet?

Derek: You, um . . . um.

Kacey: What?

Dylan: Pretty sure Timothy Berners-Lee didn’t create it yet.

Host: There was no internet back then.

Krischelle: What?

Jayka: How do you, like, look up homework?

Host: You got to go to the library!

UNIT 12
This video has no dialog.

© National Geographic Learning

T318 | WARM-UP VIDEO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 318 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 477 ────────

Global Voices Video Scripts

UNIT 1
Questions on screen: How many English classes do you have a week? Who do you study with?

Daniele: I have four classes per week, and I study with another student. There are only two students
in my classroom.

Francielen: I have four class[es] per week for five hours for each class. Our class[es] are online, and
I have just one classmate with me.

Chiyuki: I have one class a week for three hours at my college. I study online with my classmates.
There are 21 students in my class. Also, I’m taking a private lesson twice a week for one and a half
hours each.

Jaqueline: I have five classes a week for one hour each. I participate in a conversation club, and
also, I study by myself. There are two students in my class who are very friendly.

Questions on screen: Why are you learning English? Why is it important for you?

Daniele: I am learning English because I want to apply to my master’s here, and I know that I need a
really good level of English to apply for it. English, it’s important for me because since I’m living in the
USA now, I need to be able to communicate with other people, and also, when I go back to my home
country, I will be able to apply for really good jobs. I am not studying for any exams right now, but I
really want to start to study for TOEFL next year.

Francielen: I choose to study abroad because I’m a nutritionist in Brazil, so I intend to do my master’s
degree in the US. Because of that, learning English is essential for my career. My plan is starting
learning TOEFL next year.

Chiyuki: I’m learning English because I need it for my major. I want to get a degree in the US that is to
be a mental health counselor. English is important for me because I will need to speak with clients in
English. I’m also preparing for the TOEFL exam now.

Jaqueline: I’m learning English for two reasons. First, I live in the USA, and I need to communicate
with people. Second, because I have the dream of studying for a master’s degree here. That’s why
learning English is important to me. In addition, I’m preparing for the TOEFL test.

Question on screen: What do you think is difficult about learning English?

Daniele: I think that speak[ing] English in general, it’s difficult because of my accent. English is not
my first language, so when, sometimes when I speak English, people don’t understand what I’m
saying, so I need to explain in other words. And also grammar—it’s very difficult because there are
a lot of rules, and the most of the part, the most of the time, I don’t remember. So, English is really
difficult.

Francielen: Speaking English, it’s hard for me sometimes because I have some difficulty to
understand some accent[s] and abbreviation[s].

Chiyuki: I think speaking English is difficult because when I try to pronounce L and R sounds
correctly, sometimes I make a mistake

UNIT 2
Alex Sigrist: Hello, everyone! Today, I’d like to show you one of the best ways to start your day. I’m
going to make an omelet for my breakfast. An omelet is a fairly international dish, but everyone has
their own way of preparing it. So, let’s start with the ingredients.
© National Geographic Learning
I have my eggs, of course, a little milk, and some onions. I also like cheese on my omelet, and I think
the dish is tastier with some mushrooms and peppers. Some people like to add extra flavor, maybe
with something spicy. Others like to put meat in their omelets, but I think it’s healthier to just use
vegetables.

First of all, I’ll break the eggs in this bowl and stir them together. I also add some milk, not too much,
and keep mixing.

OK, I also need to prepare the rest of the ingredients. So, I’ll chop the onions and the mushrooms and
peppers. And I need to grate the cheese.

GLOBAL VOICES VIDEO SCRIPTS | T319

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 319 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 478 ────────

Global Voices Video Scripts

Right, I think I’m ready now. I’m going to heat up this saucepan and add a bit of oil, no more than
a tablespoon because I don’t want the omelet to be too oily. Next, I put in my onions and peppers
and let them cook for a minute or so. And now the mushrooms . . . I like to add some salt and a bit of
pepper. Finally, I pour in the egg mixture and cook it on a lower heat. After a while, I put the cheese on
so it melts. Some people flip their omelets over, but I like to fold mine, like this. So it stays a little softer
in the middle. And finally, it’s ready to eat.

Mmm, delicious!

UNIT 3
Nora Shawki: Have you ever heard of the pharaohs, the ancient kings and queens of Egypt? Do you
know about King Tut, the famous “boy king”? Tut became King of Egypt when he was only nine years
old. King Tut and Queen Cleopatra, the last queen of Egypt, lived more than 2,000 years ago. Do you
ever wonder about people who lived long before us? I do. I wonder what their lives were like.

Hi, I’m Nora Shawki. I’m a National Geographic Explorer. I’m also an archaeologist. Archaeologists are
scientists who explore places where people lived thousands of years ago. Some archaeologists study
famous buildings, like the Egyptian pyramids. Other archaeologists study famous people, like Queen
Cleopatra. Or, they study mummies, like the preserved body of King Tut.

Question on screen: What ancient mysteries are you interested in?

Nora Shawki: Instead of kings and queens, I’m interested in ordinary people—people like you and
me—who lived in ancient times many years ago. What was a typical day like for them? What did
houses look like 2,000 years ago? What did people eat?

Luckily, my home country is a great place to be an archaeologist. I work with a big team of people.
There are artists, ceramicists, surveyors who map the site, and many other specialists. On my team,
we all work together to excavate the site and analyze the objects we find. Those objects, called
artifacts, help us understand our history.

Question on screen: What is your job like?

Nora Shawki: Many people think archaeologists spend all day digging in the dirt. It’s true that I
do some of my work outside in the field, but most of my work is done in a lab. I do research in my
lab, write reports, and talk to other scientists who help me analyze the objects I find. But I have the
most fun when I’m outside, excavating—carefully digging for artifacts and structures underground in
the dirt.

Question on screen: What’s the luckiest discovery you have had?

Nora Shawki: Let me tell you about one of the coolest things I’ve found. I was excavating a tomb in
Sudan, an African country south of Egypt. When we arrived, the site looked like an empty desert.
There was only sand on the ground, with no modern buildings or villages. But there were amazing
things hidden under the sand. After a couple of weeks of searching, my team and I found a skeleton.
And it had a beautiful necklace on it. The necklace was made of a precious stone called lapis lazuli.
That’s one of my favorite stones, deep blue in color.

Question on screen: Why is it important to study the past?

Nora Shawki: I love my job. Learning about history from my digs helps me understand where human
beings come from. I believe that the more we know about our history, the more we can learn about
who we are today and how we’re all related. If you’re interested in history like me, that’s great! Ask
© National Geographic Learning
questions. Do research. Explore your city. Explore your own backyard! Follow your passion, whatever
it is. Learn as much as you can about the one thing that excites you the most: dinosaurs, outer space,
or anything else. From my experience, following your passion is the best way to make a big difference
in the world.

UNIT 4
Amanda Cosco: When most of us need new clothes for work or for going out, we buy them from the
local mall, or we look online and order them. But there’s another way to get your clothes which lets
you wear a new outfit every week, and you don’t have to spend a lot of money to try it.

T320 | GLOBAL VOICES VIDEO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 320 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 479 ────────

Global Voices Video Scripts

What’s up! I’m Amanda Cosco, and I’m a fashion futurist and the founder of Electric Runway. I
research and report on how technology is transforming the $1.2 trillion fashion industry around the
world. Today, we’re going to be talking all about rental fashion.

Question on screen: What is rental fashion?

Amanda Cosco: Rental fashion is an alternative to buying clothes. The basic idea is that you can rent
clothing, like dresses, suits, and jackets, wear them, return them, and then choose new items.

Question on screen: How does it work? Do you rent clothes from a store or online?

Amanda Cosco: Almost all rental fashion companies do business online. First, you sign up for a
subscription and agree to pay a certain amount of money each month. Then, you can choose items of
clothing (about three to five at a time) from a website, and they are sent to your house.

You can usually keep the clothes for about a month before returning them in the mail. Once your
clothes are returned, you can choose new items. The company cleans the items you borrowed so that
other people can rent them after.

Question on screen: Why would a customer rent clothes instead of buying them?

Amanda Cosco: Rental fashion is becoming increasingly popular, and rental fashion businesses offer
clothes for both special occasions and everyday wear. Many customers find that renting clothing is
less expensive than buying. This is especially true for designer brands, which can be pricey to buy
but are often inexpensive to rent.

Another benefit of clothing rental is that customers can try different styles and brands first before
buying. Also, since social media is such a big part of people’s lives today, rental fashion allows
customers such as fashion influencers to wear and photograph new outfits all the time while spending
a lot less.

Finally, rental fashion is environmentally friendly. A lot of people buy new clothes each year only to
throw them away the following year. Less clothing is wasted when people rent instead of buy, and this
is better for the environment.

Question on screen: What do you think will be the future trends in rental fashion?

Amanda Cosco: Rental fashion is part of a growing trend called “the sharing economy.” You can also
see this trend in car-sharing services like Uber or Lyft, or vacation rentals like Airbnb. Studies suggest
younger generations prefer to spend money on experiences rather than things, so they don’t mind
sharing items like cars, homes, and yes, even clothing!

It remains to be seen whether clothing rental companies will increase in popularity, but one thing’s for
certain, it’s a trend worth watching.

Question on screen: If I want to try rental fashion, how should I get started?

Amanda Cosco: Are you interested in renting instead of owning your next outfit? You should go online
and search “rental fashion.” Then, look through the results and find one that’s right for you. There are
many different styles and brands to choose from. Happy shopping!

UNIT 5
Question on screen: When visiting Lima, which neighborhood should I go to first?

Susana: Maybe you should visit Lima downtown because it’s a historic district here. You can find a lot
© National Geographic Learning
of good restaurants around there. You can visit Plaza San Martín. You can visit Plaza de Armas and
find a lot of history there.

Favian: You should go to Lima downtown because it’s a magical place. You can see many amazing
buildings from the 16th, 18th, 19th century.

Narrator: Downtown Lima is a beautiful and walkable area that is very important in Peruvian history.
Plaza San Martín is a nice place to meet friends and sit outside. You can see the statue of José de
San Martín and visit the famous Hotel Bolívar.

GLOBAL VOICES VIDEO SCRIPTS | T321

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 321 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 480 ────────

Global Voices Video Scripts

In the Plaza de Armas, also called Plaza Mayor, there are a number of important government
buildings, including the house of Peru’s president and the city hall. There are also many museums in
downtown Lima, so it’s a great area to go if you want to learn about the local history and culture.

Question on screen: What other neighborhoods should I visit in Lima?

Genesis: You should go to Barranco because I think, for me, it’s a really bohemian place. They have
a lot of culture there and a lot of things happening. You can go to walk through the Malecón. You can
go to have some drinks or food. They have delicious food. And they have a place that I used to go to
drink cacao tea. It’s really good, too.

Favian: You should go to Barranco. It’s the place where so many foreign people go because you have
the view of the ocean, and it’s amazing in the evening because you will see a lovely sunset.

Narrator: Barranco is a fun neighborhood that has a lot of good restaurants and coffee shops as
well as interesting street art. Barranco is also known for the Bridge of Sighs (Puente de los Suspiros),
which is only for pedestrians and cyclists. People say that if you make a wish, hold your breath, and
walk across, your wish will come true.

From Barranco, you can walk along El Malecón, a group of sidewalks and parks that have amazing
views of the ocean. El Malecón can be explored on foot or by bike. You’ll see beautiful scenery
either way.

Favian: Last but not least, you should go to Miraflores, this place, and you will be able to drink some
coffee because here in this place so many people drink coffee and read a book.

Miyri: You should come to Miraflores because you have all the entertainment that you need. The best
restaurants . . . There are a lot of things that you can do in Miraflores.

Narrator: In the Miraflores neighborhood, there are many restaurants that serve Peru’s most famous
dish: ceviche. If you’re planning to visit a popular restaurant, remember to make a reservation.

Questions on screen: What about swimming? Can I go swimming in Lima?

Susana: Yeah, actually. We have [a] beach in Lima. It’s kind of cold, but still you can go because it’s
really hot here in summertime. And there are [other] beaches, near from here, around an hour from
here, which are good, too. You can take a bus, and also you can drive a car from Lima. It’s pretty near.

Narrator: The beaches of Punta Hermosa are about an hour from Lima by car and are well known for
surfing.

Lima is a city with so many wonderful neighborhoods to explore. Which one would you like to visit
first?

UNIT 6
Narrator: A lot of us have career goals and plans for the future. The problem is knowing how to get
started. You could begin by choosing your dream class at a college or university. This is Ricardo, and
he’s going to college to achieve his goal of becoming an environmental engineer.

Ricardo: I study in the University San Ignacio de Loyola here in Lima, Peru. My career is
environmental engineer. It’s like a mix between a civil engineer but also with chemistry, and all [those]
topics of nature science, use it to take care of the environment.

Narrator: Or, you could be more like Pedro. He’s getting some real work experience before he goes
back to school to achieve his dream of making movies.
© National Geographic Learning
Pedro: At the moment, I’m working as a freelance cinematographer and videographer, here in Quito,
Ecuador. In the future, I plan to do a master’s degree in a foreign country, maybe in Colombia, maybe
in Mexico. I don’t know where yet. In the future, someday, I would like to become a famous Hollywood
photographer and maybe win an Oscar. Why not?

Narrator: Work experience in the area you want to succeed in is so important. This is Maite, and she
wants to start her own business with her sisters, but first . . .

Maite: Right now, I’m working in a design studio. I plan to work there for a few more years until my
sisters and I are a little bit more, like, established as a studio. So, I want us to have clients, and I want
us to work on our portfolio before jumping in and doing it ourselves.

T322 | GLOBAL VOICES VIDEO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 322 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 481 ────────

Global Voices Video Scripts

Narrator: So, both Pedro and Maite have chosen challenging career goals. And as anyone who is
successful will tell you, it’s important to understand the challenges and have a plan. What challenges
do Pedro and Maite think they will face in the future?

Pedro: The main challenge will be [to] find financial support for the production process. It won’t be
easy because you need a lot of money to make a movie, a lot of time, teamwork, and sacrifices.

Maite: I think the main challenge is working for yourself because that means you’re not depending on
someone else to give you money at the end of the month. Like, you have to get the money yourself,
and you have to work twice as hard and get your clients and, like, be on top every single day, every
single minute. So, it does take a lot from you, but I think it’s also very rewarding.

Narrator: So, in order to achieve your career goals: First, decide what you want and do your research.
The best route might be to go to school, but not necessarily. Sometimes it’s better to get some work
experience and learn on the job. Either way, learn as much as you can while studying and working.
Finally, identify the challenges and be prepared to overcome them with some hard work. Because, as
Maite says, challenges can be positive opportunities.

Maite: I don’t think anything that is worth it in life is easy. I don’t think it’s going to be easy. It hasn’t
been easy so far. But, yeah. I think a challenge is worth it when it gives you, like, the reward you want,
not just, like, financially but also spiritually and mentally.

UNIT 7
Questions on screen: When is New Year’s in your country? Is it an important holiday?

Francielen: In my country, New Year is [on] January 1st, like US. It’s a very important holiday, like
Christmas and Carnival.

Chiyuki: In my country, New Year is January 1st. It’s the most important holiday.

Jaqueline: In my country, the new year starts on January 1st, but we celebrate New Year’s Eve on
December 31st.

Question on screen: How do you usually celebrate New Year’s in your country?

Francielen: In Brazil, we celebrate with family and close friends. Everyone waits to toast at midnight
and to watch the fireworks. It’s so beautiful.

Ai: We usually celebrate with my family and go to [a] shrine to pray for a new year.

Daniele: Some people celebrate with friends. Some people celebrate with family. We always have
a lot of fireworks. We use white on New Year’s because this means that you’re going to have a good
new year. New Year, it’s very important because it’s a new chance for you to change a lot of things in
your life in this new year that’s coming.

Chiyuki: We usually celebrate with family and eat a big meal together. Many people visit a shrine or
temple to wish happiness and buy good luck charms.

Jaqueline: I usually celebrate with my family and my friends on the beach. We like to see the
fireworks at midnight. And we stay awake until sunrise. We have the tradition to wear white clothes
to bring peace to the new year. And some people jump seven waves while they are making seven
wishes. This holiday in Brazil is like a big celebration.

Questions on screen: Have you ever celebrated New Year’s in another country? How is it different?
© National Geographic Learning
Francielen: I have been celebrat[ing] the new year in the US for the past three years. It’s so different,
especially because [of] the weather. It’s summer in Brazil. It’s winter in [the] US. And usually, the
people in Brazil prepare a big party with a lot of people, music, and typical foods.

Chiyuki: I’ve also celebrated New Year in the US. It was different from my country because there were
fireworks at midnight, and I saw that people were having a big party.

Jaqueline: I’ve also celebrated New Year’s Eve in the USA and Colombia. Both are similar to my
country because they celebrate with family and friends. However, they don’t wear white clothes.

GLOBAL VOICES VIDEO SCRIPTS | T323

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 323 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 482 ────────

Global Voices Video Scripts

UNIT 8
Sylvia Johnson: I’m Sylvia Johnson, and I’m a National Geographic grantee and Explorer.

Gabby Salazar: My name is Gabby Salazar, and I’m a National Geographic Explorer and a
photographer.

Jennifer Adler: My name is Jennifer Adler, and I am an underwater photojournalist.

Laurel Chor: My name is Laurel Chor, and I’m a National Geographic Explorer.

Question on screen: What does every story need?

Gabby Salazar: So for me, every story needs a surprise. Sometimes it’s humor, and sometimes it’s
another element, but you want to make sure that they look at it and say, “Wow, I want to learn more.”

Jennifer Adler: Every story needs emotion, and it needs something that’s going to draw people in
and make them want to learn more.

Sylvia Johnson: So, stories always need to take you on some kind of journey, and they need
amazing characters.

Laurel Chor: I think every story needs a good character. I think you need someone, and not
necessarily a human, who you can relate to, who you make your audience care about. So, I think it’s
always important to have someone that your audience can feel like they could be friends with.

Question on screen: How do you tell a story impactfully through your work?

Laurel Chor: To make a story impactful, I use visuals: so, photography and videos.

Gabby Salazar: So, when I take photos, I try to communicate environmental messages.

I want people to look more closely at the natural world around them. And so, when I try to tell an
impactful story, I try to tell about the beauty but also about some of the challenges.

Question on screen: What is the story behind an important photograph you have taken?

Jennifer Adler: The most challenging shoot that I’ve done was one in a spring in Central Florida
where scientists were releasing this really brightly colored red dye into the water. And it was to track
how the water came out of the spring and went down the river, but they had to release the dye at
either sunrise or sunset, so the light was really low. There are also a lot of alligators at that spring,
so you were looking out for alligators, making sure you had the right settings as the light was kind of
rapidly disappearing, and also the dye spreads very quickly. And so, I was trying to show through a
picture, or a series of pictures, what these scientists do in a way that more people can understand.

Gabby Salazar: One photo that stands out to me is a photo I took a couple years ago while on
an expedition with a scientist who studies volcanoes. And we were on an expedition on the top
of a mountain in Guatemala, and she was doing research, but at night I wanted to just capture
the experience of being in camp. And so, I was able to create this image of her sitting around the
campfire with beautiful clouds in the background and just the experience of what it’s like to be doing
research. And that really stands out to me as an image that captures the hardship, but also the beauty
of being a scientist in the field.

Question on screen: How do you think storytelling will change in the next five to ten years?

Jennifer Adler: In five to ten years, there’s still going to be a huge need for stories that connect us
and for stories that show how we’re having a positive, inspiring impact on the planet.

Sylvia Johnson: I think filmmaking is going to become more and more interactive, so the people
© National Geographic Learning
telling the story and the people experiencing the story may be crossing over more. I also think we’re
going to start hearing more stories, seeing more stories, from voices that haven’t been heard as
much. I think we’re going to have more diversity and a broader richness of the stories that are told.

Gabby Salazar: In the future, I see my field of photography looking even more diverse and exciting
because now we all have access to ways of telling our stories, and I’m so excited to see stories from
all corners of the world.

T324 | GLOBAL VOICES VIDEO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 324 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 483 ────────

Global Voices Video Scripts

UNIT 9
Corey Arnold: My name is Corey Arnold. I’m a commercial fisherman in Alaska, and I’m a National
Geographic photographer.

Commercial fishermen in Alaska come from a lot of different walks of life. There’s people from all over
America that seasonally come up to kind of experience the adventure and the escape of living on a
boat, away from computers and connection to the outside world. I think it draws adventurous-type
spirits up there.

One of the reasons commercial fishing in the Bering Sea is such a dangerous thing to do is that
there’s these extreme currents out near the Aleutian Islands. And those currents butted up against
a lot of bad weather create huge seas. And we’re often fishing in 15-foot to 25-foot seas. And we’re
fishing with these over 800-pound steel crab pots. So, all this heavy machinery on a crab boat mixed
with really big seas and weather creates a really hazardous environment where you can get crushed
or thrown over the side and whatnot.

When I first became interested in photography, I shot a lot of landscapes and wildlife and
photographs that didn’t have people in them. It was just much easier to shoot things that don’t talk
back to you. But eventually, I started photographing people and getting comfortable shooting my
friends. And I was very nervous about the eye contact you make with a subject.

I was a little bit on the shyer side when I started photographing. But over time, just with, you know,
shooting people over and over, you start to get very comfortable approaching people, and I feel like
now shooting people is one of my favorite things to do.

So, in 2016, I was commissioned by National Geographic Magazine to shoot a story called
“Unplugging the Selfie Generation.” Essentially, I was going to national parks around the country,
finding millennials, and kind of seeing how they were experiencing the parks. We used Instagram as
a main tool to find these people. I would travel to a park and then look on Instagram and see who was
hashtagging that park and who was there at the moment. And sometimes, I would just reach out to
people that seem to be going on an interesting hike or doing something and say, like, “Hey, I’m a Nat
Geo photographer. Do you mind if we join you for the day?” And so, I made an incredible amount of
new friends, very young friends from, like, you know, age 18 to 31 or so at that time.

We discovered that, really, young people seem to be more passionate than ever about being out in
nature. And I think the internet and the new tools we use, such as Instagram, is actually inspiring
people to get out more. The stereotype is that young people are just sitting and looking at their cell
phones and on the computer all the time and not actually doing the thing, the beautiful adventures
that they’re witnessing, but we kind of found the opposite. And actually, the attendance to national
parks has been huge lately in recent years. So, it was kind of interesting to see how photography has
been so inspiring to this younger generation.

UNIT 10
Questions on screen: What type of technology do you use most often? What do you like about it?

Maite: The type of technology I use the most is my phone and my laptop. Mostly, I use it for work. I
talk to clients through my phone, through messaging apps, and I use my computer to work.

I don’t really know if I like to be on my phone or my laptop. I like that it’s convenient, and it’s remote.
Like, I can take my work anywhere.

Pedro: Probably, I use my phone the most. I use it mostly for staying in touch with my family and
© National Geographic Learning
friends and passing the time when I’m bored.

Marcel: I like the world in my pocket. [If] I want to know something, I simply take it and Google it.

Question on screen: What drives you crazy about smartphones?

Pedro: One thing that drives me crazy about it is when people check their phones every five seconds
during a conversation. I hate that.

Maite: One thing that drives me crazy about it is that I’m on it all the time, and sometimes I get
distracted by it. Like, people are talking to me, and I’m not really paying attention because I’m on my
phone. So, that’s one thing I really don’t like.

GLOBAL VOICES VIDEO SCRIPTS | T325

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 325 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 484 ────────

Global Voices Video Scripts

Question on screen: How do you usually communicate with people?

Maite: I normally communicate with people in my life or in my job through messaging apps, through
email, and phone calls. I prefer using messaging apps because it’s convenient, and it’s fast, and I can
reach anyone in the world.

Pedro: I often communicate by phone, but at work, I usually use email and video calls. I prefer texting
my friends because I can use stickers.

Question on screen: What bothers you about communication these days?

Maite: I’m available 24/7, so sometimes my clients call me at six in the morning on a Saturday or 9 pm
on a Monday. It’s kind of like not having office hours or privacy, sometimes.

Pedro: I can’t stand only communicating by email and phone. I love talking to people in person, face
to face.

UNIT 11
Amber Case: My name is Amber Case. I’m a cyborg anthropologist and a National Geographic
Explorer. I study how our relationship with technology affects the way we act in and understand
our world.

Do you own a smart device? Maybe you have a smartphone or a smart watch. Maybe you even have
a smart television. Smart devices are everywhere, and they are transforming our lives. They are even
starting to make their way into our homes.

For example, smart refrigerators have some very remarkable features. We used to write a grocery list
on a piece of paper, but now we could tell a smart refrigerator what food we need from the store, and
it could create a list for us and send it to our phone. We used to follow a recipe in a cookbook, but
that same refrigerator can now read a recipe to us as we cook a meal.

These technologies are fashionable and they’re becoming more and more affordable, but are these
products always necessary? I can receive a message from my refrigerator. It tells me to throw out
my bananas. A lot of people think that’s a great feature. But, in fact, I don’t need that message. I can
see by myself that the bananas are not good to eat. I don’t need a computer to tell me. This message
is supposed to help me, but it can also have a negative effect. It can distract me and take up my
attention. It’s not very relaxing or practical.

Technology should require the smallest amount of attention. Products should not distract us or make
us anxious. They should create a calm feeling. Some people like having lots of different applications
with notifications to control all of the technology in their homes, but I’m different. I think technology
should be calmer, more in the background. Take the Roomba, for example. It’s a smart vacuum
cleaner. It works quietly in the background, and when it’s finished, it makes a pleasant sound. Anyone
can use the Roomba and feel calm.

What’s next? In the future, calm technologies should be as easy to use as a pair of our favorite shoes.
They should be as easy as turning on a light switch. In the future, humans and technology should
work together to help get the job done. Good designers should focus on what humans are good at
doing and what technology is good at doing, then combine the best of each. Our goal should be to
lead less distracted lives, and calm technology can help us to do this.

UNIT 12
© National Geographic Learning
Questions on screen: Do you enjoy traveling? Why or why not?

Francielen: I love traveling because, for me, it’s amazing to visit new places.

Ai: I love traveling because I can meet some new people, and I can visit new places.

Daniele: I love traveling because I can try new local foods. I can go to new places, get to know more
people, new people from different cultures. Sometimes, traveling can be a little stressful if you have
problems with your rental cars or with your flight or something like this, but at the end, everything [is]
worth it.

T326 | GLOBAL VOICES VIDEO SCRIPTS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 326 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 485 ────────

Global Voices Video Scripts

Jaqueline: I love traveling because it is a good way to learn about different cultures and to make new
friends.

Chiyuki: I love traveling because it’s exciting. And every time I can experience new things that I’ve
never done. Even if flights or other transportation get delayed or canceled unexpectedly, I feel [it’s]
enjoyable because it can be the spice of traveling.

Question on screen: What countries have you traveled to before?

Francielen: I haven’t had the opportunity to visit other countries before coming to the US, but my plan
is [to] visit Italy soon.

Ai: I’ve traveled to the US and India before.

Daniele: I’ve traveled to the USA, Brazil (because it’s my home country), and I also went on a cruise.
So I’ve traveled to Mexico, Jamaica, [the] Cayman Islands, and [the] Bahamas.

Jaqueline: I went on a trip to Panama, Colombia, Argentina, and the USA.

Chiyuki: I’ve traveled to over 20 countries, and I especially loved Greece and the US.

Question on screen: When you arrived in the US, what were some of the first differences you
noticed?

Francielen: When I arrived in the US, I was scared about the language and the weather because I
didn’t study English in Brazil, and there isn’t snow in my country.

Daniele: When I first arrived in the US, I noticed, of course, the language because at the first moment
it’s hard to understand people.

Jaqueline: When I first arrived in the USA, I observed that people like to drink a lot of coffee, and the
coffee size is bigger than in my country.

Chiyuki: When I first arrived in the US, I noticed that people were very kind, and the natural
landscape was huge.

Questions on screen: Do you ever feel homesick? What do you miss about home?

Francielen: I love to live in Boston, but sometimes, I feel homesick, especially during the holidays,
like Christmas. It’s so sad for me. I miss a lot my parents, my friends, the music, parties, and the
specific foods like pinhão.

Ai: I’m very happy because I have some friends in New York City, but I really miss my mom’s food.

Daniele: I[’m] still missing a lot of food from Brazil. There are some kinds of food that we don’t have
the ingredients, or it’s too hard to find. So, it’s hard to cook here.

Jaqueline: I always feel homesick on New Year’s Eve because here [it’s] winter, and I can’t go to the
beach to see the fireworks, and it’s too cold.

Chiyuki: All the time I was happy, so I haven’t felt homesick, but sometimes I miss an authentic
Japanese food like tempura.

© National Geographic Learning

GLOBAL VOICES VIDEO SCRIPTS | T327

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 327 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 486 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

UNIT 1

Lesson A

Vocabulary
A. Answers will vary.

B. 1. girlfriend; going out, 2. colleague, 3. classmate, 4. neighbor, 5. get along well; close, 6. old;
friend, 7. next-door

C. Answers will vary.

Conversation
A. 1. I’d like to introduce you to my cousin. 2. Andres, this is Mr. Park. 3. It’s very nice to meet you,
Salma. 4. Sorry, I’m terrible with names. 5. Mom, I’d like you to meet Daniel. 6. I’m sorry, I’ve forgotten
your name.

B. 3, 1, 4, 2, 6, 5

C. Answers will vary.

Grammar
A. Answers will vary.

B. 1. ’m / am, 2. doesn’t like / does not like, 3. ’m watching / am watching, 4. plays, 5. ’m studying /
am studying; study, 6. ’s winning / is winning, 7. cooks; ’s cooking / is cooking, 8. isn’t drinking / is not
drinking / doesn’t drink / does not drink; likes

C. Answers will vary.

Lesson B

Vocabulary and Grammar
A. 1. e, 2. b, 3. f, 4. c, 5. d, 6. a, 7. g

B. 1. lived, 2. moved, 3. got, 4. wanted, 5. finished, 6. went, 7. was, 8. found

C. Underlined: worked, stayed, liked, enjoyed, wondered, wanted, needed

Circled: forgot, had, slept, saw, was, had

Reading and Writing
B. 1. F, 2. T, 3. T, 4. F, 5. F, 6. T, 7. F, 8. T

C. 1. traveled, 2. went, 3. felt, 4. said, 5. got, 6. talked, 7. sat, 8. met, 9. took, 10. stayed, 11. had,
12. was, 13. saw, 14. didn’t want / did not want

D. Answers will vary.

UNIT 2

Lesson A

Vocabulary
A. 1. tasty, 2. spicy, 3. cooked, 4. sweet, 5. fried, 6. delicious, 7. juicy, 8. oily, 9. sour, 10. salty,
© National Geographic Learning
11. frozen, 12. terrible, 13. yummy, 14. baked, 15. mild, 16. awful

B. 1. sour / sweet, 2. salty / oily, 3. spicy, 4. sweet, 5. baked, 6. fried / oily

C. 1. b, 2. e, 3. a / d, 4. f, 5. a / d

Conversation
A. 1. How about going to a movie tonight, 2. Why don’t we have some ice cream after class, 3. Let’s
have Brazilian food tonight, 4. Why don’t we meet at 8:00, 5. How about playing tennis tomorrow

B. 4, 2, 5, 6, 1, 3

C. Answers will vary.

T328 | WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 328 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 487 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

Grammar
A. 1. colder, 2. friendlier, 3. better, 4. nicer, 5. harder, 6. easier

B. Answers will vary.

C. 1. better, 2. tastier, 3. juicier, 4. spicier, 5. more unusual, 6. sweeter, 7. more delicious, 8. crazier

Lesson B

Vocabulary and Grammar
A. 1. d, 2. c, 3. e, 4. a, 5. b

B. 1. lifestyle, 2. plenty, 3. health benefits, 4. increases, 5. reduced, 6. prevent, 7. habits, 8. diets

C. Answers will vary.

Reading and Writing
A. Answers will vary.

C. 1. c, 2. b, 3. f, 4. a, 5. d, 6. e

D. 1. F; section 5, 2. T; section 3, 3. F; section 8, 4. F; section 2, 5. T; section 5, 6. F; section 4

E. 1. most famous, 2. spicy, 3. most popular, 4. milder, 5. spiciest, 6. healthier, 7. most delicious

F. Answers will vary.

UNIT 3

Lesson A

Vocabulary
A. 1. g, 2. c, 3. a, 4. d, 5. f, 6. e, 7. b, 8. h

B. 1. more likely to, 2. by chance, 3. avoid, 4. on purpose, 5. bring good luck, 6. increase; chances,
7. take a chance

C. Answers will vary.

Conversation
A. 1. I doubt that Javier goes rock climbing, 2. Perhaps your cousin will help us organize the party,
3. I bet that she wins the game, 4. Muhammad probably knows the answer, 5. Maybe he walks to work

B. 1, 7, 3, 5, 2, 6, 4, 8

C. Answers will vary.

Grammar
A. Circled: love, like, tastes, see, smell, hear, feel, cost, believe, appreciate

B. 1. smells, 2. ’m doing / am doing, 3. know, 4. don’t believe / do not believe, 5. hate; feel,
6. ’s learning / is learning; ’s teaching / is teaching. 7. own; ’m taking / am taking, 8. belong, 9. looks,
10. seems; understand

C. 1. I; Sorry, but I don’t understand that word., 2. I; Right now, we are looking at photos from our
vacation., 3. C, 4. C, 5. I; The onion soup tastes too salty., 6. C, 7. I; Mr. Jones has a new job., 8. C
© National Geographic Learning
Lesson B

Vocabulary and Grammar
A. 1. mysteries, 2. explanations, 3. make sense, 4. can’t, 5. figure out, 6. theory, 7. investigate,
8. might, 9. proof, 10. solved

B. Answers will vary.

C. Answers will vary.

WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS | T329

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 329 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 488 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

Reading and Writing
B. 1. An explosion happened in a forest. People fell. All the trees were knocked down. The fire burned
for weeks. 2. A forest in Tunguska, Russia. 3. In the early morning, June 30, 1908.

C. (images numbered from left to right and top to bottom) top row: 4, 5, 1, bottom row: 2, 3

D. 1. figure out, 2. investigations, 3. explanation, 4. proof, 5. sense, 6. theories, 7. mystery, 8. solved

E. Answers will vary.

F. Answers will vary.

UNIT 4

Lesson A

Vocabulary
A. 1. b, 2. c, 3. d, 4. a

B. 1. almost; thousand, 2. approximately; billion, 3. a lot, 4. increase, 5. point, 6. exactly, 7. million,
8. trend

C. 1. approximately, 2. million, 3. about, 4. million, 5. thousand, 6. exactly, 7. point, 8. nearly

Conversation
A. 1. c, 2. e, 3. b, 4. g, 5. a, 6. f, 7. d

B. 1. Oh, I’m not sure about that. 2. I’m sorry, but I disagree. I think video games make people lazy.
3. I know what you mean, but games are good for problem solving. 4. I’m afraid I disagree.

C. Answers will vary.

Grammar
A. Answers will vary.

B. 1. Most of, 2. All, 3. a couple of, 4. some, 5. A lot of, 6. Many, 7. some of, 8. None of

C. Answers will vary.

Lesson B

Vocabulary and Grammar
A. 1. looks great in, 2. suits, 3. inexpensive; brands, 4. comfortable, 5. look good on, 6. influencer;
style, 7. unique, 8. casual

B. Answers will vary.

C. Answers will vary.

Reading and Writing
A. First paragraph: opinions 2 and 3, second paragraph: opinions 1 and 4

B. 1. d, 2. c, 3. e, 4. f, 5. a, 6. b

C. 1. shopping, 2. clothes, 3. afford, 4. trends, 5. inexpensive, 6. unique, 7. choose, 8. style

D. Answers will vary.© National Geographic Learning

T330 | WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 330 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 489 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

UNIT 5

Lesson A

Vocabulary
A.

do go make X
the dishes    grocery shopping a reservation    vacuum

laundry    an appointment    pick up

dinner    drop off

sweep

B. 1. make dinner, 2. do the dishes, 3. sweep, 4. pick up, 5. drop off, 6. make, appointment,
7. vacuum, 8. make a reservation

C. Answers will vary.

Conversation
A. Conversation 1: 2, 1, 3, 5, 4, 6

Conversation 2: 4, 1, 6, 2, 3, 5

Conversation 3: 5, 1, 4, 6, 2, 3

B. 1. c, 2. d, 3. a, 4. e, 5. b

C. Answers will vary.

Grammar
A. Answers will vary.

B. 1. b, 2. a, 3. a, 4. a

C. 1. Could; Would you mind turning down the music? 2. passing; Will you pass me the salt?
3. closed; Could you close the window, please? 4. explaining; Can you explain that to me again?
5. help; Would you mind helping me with this?

Lesson B

Vocabulary and Grammar
A. 1. walkable, 2. pedestrians, 3. traffic, 4. cyclists, 5. get around, 6. sidewalks, 7. bike lanes,
8. on foot, 9. get to

B. 1. pedestrians, 2. on foot, 3. get around, 4. Cyclists; bike lanes, 5. walkable, 6. traffic, 7. get to,
8. sidewalks

C. 1. c, 2. f, 3. e, 4. a, 5. b, 6. d

Reading and Writing
B. 1. Neither, 2. Both, 3. Bogotá, 4. Both, 5. Both, 6. Curitiba, 7. Neither, 8. Bogotá

C. 1. The US is the country that has a third of the world’s airports, 2. London is the city that has the
© National Geographic Learning
world’s oldest subway system, 3. Shanghai is the city that has the world’s fastest train, 4. Seoul is the
city that has the biggest subway system in the world

D. Some answers may vary over time. 1. 5,145, 2. 1863, 3. 431 kph (268 mph), 4. 1974

E. 1. is, 2. becomes, 3. solve, 4. build, 5. decrease, 6. buy, 7. increase, 8. don’t let, 9. make

F. Answers will vary.

WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS | T331

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 331 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 490 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

UNIT 6

Lesson A

Vocabulary
A.

Verb Noun
application
apply

arrangement
arrange

choice
choose

consideration
consider

decision
decide

intention
intend

plan
plan

recommendation
recommend

B. 1. d, 2. c, 3. a, 4. f, 5. e, 6. b
C. 1. apply, 2. plan / intention, 3. plan / intention; decide / choose, 4. arrange; application /
recommendation, 5. choice, 6. plan / intend, 7. choose, 8. recommend

Conversation
A. 1. c, 2. e, 3. d, 4. a, 5. b
B. Conversation 1: 4, 1, 2, 3, 5
Conversation 2: 4, 2, 5, 1, 3
Conversation 3: 2, 5, 3, 1, 4
C. Answers will vary.

Grammar
A. 1. d, 2. f, 3. a, 4. c, 5. e, 6. b
B. 1. ’ll / will, 2. ’re / are going to, 3. ’s / is going to, 4. ’ll / will, 5. ’m / am going to, 6. ’ll / will,
7. going to, 8. ’ll / will
C. Answers will vary.

Lesson B
Vocabulary and Grammar
A. 1. She’ll probably get into a good college, 2. Maybe I’ll work for a year before college, 3. He’ll
probably apply for an internship, 4. She definitely isn’t going to join the team, 5. Maybe my teacher
will write a letter of recommendation, 6. They’ll definitely move to Osaka when she finishes college
B. 1. In the near future, 2. create a resume, 3. did an internship, 4. take time off, 5. opportunity,
6. be my own boss, 7. go back to school, 8. someday
C. Answers will vary.

Reading and Writing© National Geographic Learning
B. 1. f, 2. c, 3. a, 4. d, 5. b, 6. e

T332 | WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 332 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 491 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

C.

Name Major College Job / Hobby Dreams Plans
Jameela biology and day care center be a doctor travel and do volunteer work
chemistry    go to medical school
Jennie business cooking start own business move to New York

work for a large corporation
Shane computer    playing music /    play music job interviews with software
science    playing guitar /    companies
playing electronic
music

D. 1. ’ll / will have / ’s / is going to, 2. worked, 3. learned, 4. ’ll / will become / ’s / is going to become,
5. ’ll / will get / ’s / is going to get, 6. ’ll / will start / ’s / is going to start

E. Answers will vary.

F. Answers will vary.

UNIT 7

Lesson A

Vocabulary
A. 1. invite, 2. celebrate, 3. host, 4. plan, 5. guests, 6. organize, 7. attend, 8. decorate, 9. throw a
party, 10. get together

B. 1. hosted, 2. invited, 3. get, 4. attend, 5. decorated, 6. guests, 7. planned, 8. throws

C. Answers will vary.

Conversation
A. 1. A: Do you want to go with me; B: Sure, I’d love to, 2. A: How’d you like to go with me; B: I’m
sorry, but I can’t. I have plans, 3. A: Do you want to study together; B: Unfortunately, I can’t. I have to
work, 4. A: How’d you like to see a movie on Wednesday; B: I’d love to, but I’m busy that day

B. Conversation 1: 2, 5, 4, 1, 3, 6

Conversation 2: 4, 5, 6, 2, 3, 1

C. Answers will vary.

Grammar
A. Group 1: 1. b, 2. d, 3. c, 4. a

Group 2: 1. d, 2. a, 3. b, 4. c

Group 3: 1. d, 2. c, 3. b, 4. a

B. 1. either, 2. So, 3. too, 4. neither, 5. So, 6. too, 7. So, 8. either

C. Answers will vary.

Lesson B
© National Geographic Learning
Vocabulary and Grammar
A.

Verb Noun Noun (person)
compete competition competitor
participate participation participant
perform performance performer

WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS | T333

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 333 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 492 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

B. 1. takes place, 2. perform, 3. competitor, 4. participate, 5. prizes, 6. traditions, 7. gather,
8. performances

C. 1. h, 2. f, 3. b, 4. e, 5. d, 6. a, 7. c, 8. g

D. 1. before, 2. When / After, 3. After, 4. before, 5. When / Before, 6. after

Reading and Writing
B. 1. F; You might need a jacket, sunglasses, an umbrella, or all three. 2. T; Plan to arrive about four
hours before any big parade. Find a space in the morning. 3. F; Many hotels start taking reservations
for Mardi Gras in August. 4. T; Jump to catch beads, plastic coins, cups, and toy animals. 5. F; For
the popular Sunday night parade . . . 6. T; Many streets are closed to cars, and bus and street car
schedules often change.

C. 1. performances, 2. perform, 3. competition, 4. prizes, 5. Competitors / Performers / Participants

D. 1. Before, 2. after, 3. before, 4. After, 5. after, 6. after

E. Answers will vary.

UNIT 8

Lesson A

Vocabulary
A. 1. character, 2. based on, 3. takes place, 4. director, 5. easy to follow, 6. predictable, 7. fiction,
8. best-selling

B. 1. g, 2. a, 3. e, 4. d, 5. c, 6. b, 7. f

C. Answers will vary.

Conversation
A. 1. Wow! Are you serious? 2. What happened next? 3. I just heard an amazing story. 4. What’s it
about? 5. What did he do next? 6. Where does it take place? 7. It’s a story about a race car driver.

B. 1. I just read an unbelievable story. 2. What’s it about? 3. It’s a story about a group of hikers.
4. Is it fiction? 5. No, it is a true story. 6. Oh, I love true stories. What happens? 7. Well, they get stuck
in a snowstorm. 8. Oh, no! Really? That sounds scary. 9. Yes, really. They must have been so scared.
10. What happens after that? 11. Well, in the end . . .

C. Answers will vary.

Grammar
A. Answers will vary.

B. 1. b, 2. a, 3. c, 4. d, 5. e

C. 1. was studying / doing her homework. 2. was playing guitar. 3. was cooking. 4. was eating /
tasting Andreus’s food / helping Andreus. 5. was reading. 6. was exercising. 7. was sleeping.

Lesson B

Vocabulary and Grammar
A. 1. ancient, 2. traditional, 3. magic, 4. evil, 5. clever, 6. brave, 7. succeed, 8. incredible, 9. discovers
© National Geographic Learning
B. 1. ancient, 2. discovers, 3. magic, 4. evil, 5. clever, 6. traditional

C. 1. eloquently, 2. deeply, 3. differently, 4. instantly, 5. fluently, 6. shyly, 7. usually, 8. well, 9. strangely

Reading and Writing
A. 4, 5, 7, 1, 2, 6, 3

B. 1. finally, 2. entered, 3. bought, 4. pounds, 5. roasted, 6. weighed, 7. scale, 8. precisely

C. Answers will vary.

T334 | WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 334 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 493 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

D. 1. was sleeping, 2. opened, 3. saw, 4. was flying, 5. said, 6. heard, 7. agreed, 8. picked up,
9. went, 10. were flying, 11. said, 12. opened, 13. fell

E. Answers will vary.

UNIT 9

Lesson A

Vocabulary
A. Across: 1. personable, 2. knowledgeable, 4. courageous, 5. flexible, 6. independently

Down: 1. punctual, 3. efficient, 4. cautious

B. 1. personable, 2. independently, 3. efficient, 4. punctual, 5. cautious

Conversation
A. 1. d, 2. c, 3. f, 4. b, 5. e, 6. a

B. 1. I’ll be in touch soon, 2. It’s great to be here, 3. It’s my pleasure, 4. I’m majoring in English,
5. I look forward to hearing from you

C. Answers will vary.

Grammar
A. 1. gone, 2. been, 3. had, 4. studied, 5. drunk, 6. slept, 7. come, 8. read, 9. taken, 10. thought,
11. known, 12. done

B. Ina’s list: 1. She hasn’t called Ms. Ramirez. 2. She has gone to the bank. 3. She hasn’t written an
email to Marco. 4. She hasn’t read the report. 5. She has prepared for the meeting.

Mr. and Mrs. Silva’s list: 1. They have taken the kids to school. 2. They haven’t gone shopping.
3. They have cleaned the house. 4. They haven’t made lunch. 5. They haven’t washed the dishes.

Juan’s list: 1. He has done his homework. 2. He has bought a dictionary. 3. He hasn’t studied for the
test. 4. He hasn’t gotten the / a new textbook. 5. He hasn’t had dinner with Anne.

C. Answers will vary.

Lesson B

Vocabulary and Grammar
A. 1. c, 2. a, 3. f, 4. b, 5. d, 6. e

B. 1. A: Did; like; B: haven’t read, 2. A: have; known; B: have known, 3. A: saw; B: Did; enjoy, 4. A: did;
study; B: studied, 5. A: Have; been; B: went, 6. A: Have; finished; B: finished

C. 1. have eaten, 2. walked, 3. thought, 4. have traveled, 5. did, 6. moved, 7. has never had,
8. has worked

Reading and Writing
B.

Name: Ryan Hayes
© National Geographic Learning
Job: voice talent
Company: West Coast Audio
Good points of his job: flexible schedule, rewarding, fun, gets to meet movie stars
Bad points of his job: has to record same script over and over, must be cautious

C. 1. Ryan, 2. the job, 3. the recording of Ryan’s voice, 4. Ryan’s voice

D. 1. was, 2. worked, 3. well paid, 4. glamorous, 5. traveled, 6. met, 7. owned, 8. decided, 9. has
been, 10. demanding / exhausting, 11. exhausting / demanding, 12. has become, 13. hazardous,
14. has; had, 15. rewarding, 16. have; been

E. Answers will vary.

WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS | T335

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 335 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 494 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

UNIT 10

Lesson A

Vocabulary
A. 1. spend time, 2. get in touch, 3. check your phone, 4. check your email, 5. return a call,
6. get a text, 7. on silent, 8. I don’t have a signal

B. 1. f, 2. g, 3. d, 4. a, 5. c, 6. e, 7. h, 8. b

C. 1. on silent, 2. spend time, 3. Get in touch, 4. check your email, 5. return a call, 6. check your
phone, 7. I don’t have a signal, 8. get a text

Conversation
A. 1. Hi. Is Karla there, 2. Hello. May I speak to Sunni, 3. Hello. This is Mark, 4. May I ask who’s
calling, 5. Would you like to leave a message, 6. Can you hang on for a moment, 7. Could you hold for
a second

B. Conversation 1: 6, 3, 1, 5, 7, 2, 4, 8, 9

Conversation 2: 4, 1, 7, 2, 5, 3, 6

C. Answers will vary.

Grammar
A. 1. Would it be OK if I called back later? 2. Sure, no problem. 3. Would you mind if I moved to
another seat? 4. May we have the vegan meal? 5. Sorry, but I need to use it now. 6. No, not at all.
7. Certainly, go ahead. 8. Do you mind if I borrow a pencil?

B. 1. A: be OK if; B: Sure; problem, 2. A: mind if; B: at all; ahead, 3. A: mind if; B: No; ahead,
4. A: May / Could / Can I; B: I’m sorry

C. Answers will vary.

Lesson B

Vocabulary and Grammar
A. 1. f, 2. a, 3. j, 4. h, 5. e, 6. b, 7. I, 8. g, 9. d, 10. i, 11. k, 12. c

B. 1. ban, 2. ignore, 3. addicted to, 4. pay attention to, 5. respond, 6. allow, 7. turn down, 8. rude,
9. turn up, 10. post

C. Answers will vary.

Reading and Writing
A. 1. b. Are you too attached to your cell phone? 2. d. Do you use your phone for everything? 3. e. Are
you spending too much? 4. c. Are you being unsafe with your phone? 5. a. Are you being rude?

B. 1. emergency, 2. illegal, 3. private, 4. risky, 5. disturb, 6. budget, 7. colleagues, 8. get in the way of,
9. reconsider, 10. attached

C. 1. to give, 2. talking, 3. working, 4. getting / to get, 5. to wait, 6. to answer, 7. making / to make

D. Answers will vary.

E. Answers will vary.
© National Geographic Learning
UNIT 11

Lesson A

Vocabulary
A. 1. wearable, 2. advanced, 3. reliable, 4. affordable, 5. customizable, 6. rechargeable,
7. fashionable, 8. user-friendly, 9. practical, 10. durable

B. 1. wearable, 2. reliable, 3. affordable, 4. fashionable, 5. durable, 6. rechargeable, 7. practical,
8. customizable, 9. user-friendly, 10. advanced

T336 | WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 336 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 495 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

C. 1. wearable, 2. user-friendly, 3. durable, 4. fashionable, 5. affordable, 6. advanced, 7. reliable,
8. customizable

Conversation
A. 1. Other people: Some people say that cell phones are dangerous. You: In reality, they can save
lives. 2. Other people: Some people think that everyone should have a smartphone. You: But, the truth
is it’s not necessary. 3. Other people: Some people say that I’m shy. You: But, I’m actually outgoing
with my friends. / But, actually, I’m outgoing with my friends. 4. Other people: A lot of people think
I just like hip hop music. You: But, in fact, I listen to classical music too.

B. Answers will vary.

C. Answers will vary.

Grammar
A. Answers will vary.

B. Answers will vary.

C. 1. I; Claudia didn’t use to speak English very often., 2. C, 3. I; When I was a child, I used to
play outdoors all day in summer., 4. C, 5. C, 6. C, 7. I; Now, Young-Hee visits her grandparents
every Saturday. / Young-Hee used to visit her grandparents every Saturday., 8. I; When you lived in
California, did you use to go to the beach often?

D. 1. d, 2. c, 3. a, 4. e, 5. b

Lesson B

Vocabulary and Grammar
A. 1. plug in, 2. look up, 3. goes off, 4. log in, 5. loaded, 6. stand up

B. 1. plug in, 2. charge, 3. run out, 4. switch on, 5. scroll down, 6. look up

C. 1. isn’t as tall as, 2. doesn’t play; as well as, 3. doesn’t play; as well as, 4. is as old as, 5. doesn’t
have as many friends as, 6. isn’t as shy as

Reading and Writing
A. toasters, microwaves, coffee maker, alarm clock, lights, heater, air conditioner, refrigerator

B. 1. T, 2. T, 3. F, 4. T, 5. F, 6. F

C. 1. c, 2. b, 3. a, 4. d

D. 1. communicate, 2. technology, 3. design, 4. appliances

E. Answers will vary.

UNIT 12

Lesson A

Vocabulary
A. 1. valid, 2. apply for, 3. book, 4. get, 5. exchange, 6. download, 7. pack, 8. water, 9. check in,
10. lock
© National Geographic Learning
B. 1. booked; tickets, 2. apply; visa, 3. travel insurance, 4. checks in online, 5. a weather app,
6. pack a travel adapter, 7. water the plants, 8. exchange; money, 9. valid, 10. lock the front door

C. Answers will vary.

Conversation
A. 1. d, 2. c, 3. b, 4. a

B. Answers will vary.

C. Answers will vary.

WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS | T337

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 337 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 496 ────────

Workbook Answer Keys

Grammar
A. Answers will vary.

B. Answers will vary.

C. Answers will vary.

Lesson B

Vocabulary and Grammar
A.

Information with times    Places to take
Verbs Transportation status
and dates    transportation
itinerary    bus stop    catch    delayed

schedule    terminal    take off    boarding

gate    depart

B. 1. depart, 2. delayed, 3. take off, 4. catch, 5. boarding

C. Answers may vary. Suggested answers:

Yes / No Questions: 1. Do they drive to work every day, 2. Are you shopping (right now),
3. Have you ever been to Peru, 4. Did you visit grandma (yesterday), 5. Could / Can you send me the
documents (today)

Wh- questions: 1. What do you (usually) eat for lunch, 2. Where are you thinking of going on / for your
next vacation, 3. How many times have you been to yoga class, 4. When did you apply for your visa,
5. How long will you be in Bogota

Reading and Writing
A. 1. Pre-trip planning, 2. Tagging luggage, 3. Saving space, 4. Your carry-on bag, 5. Other ideas

B. 1. Bad idea, 2. Bad idea, 3. Good idea, 4. Good idea, 5. Bad idea, 6. Good idea, 7. Bad idea

C. 1. hurrying, 2. tags, 3. a few, 4. valuable, 5. review, 6. first-aid kit, 7. bulky

D. 1. Have you traveled, 2. I’ve ever visited, 3. did you go, 4. should I, 5. don’t have to, 6. was,
7. took, 8. Will you go

E. Answers will vary.

© National Geographic Learning

T338 | WORKBOOK ANSWER KEYS

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 338 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 497 ────────

Credits

Illustration: All illustrations are owned by © Cengage.

T221 sireonio/Shutterstock.com; T225 (tl) ©Goodshoot/Jupiterimages, (tc) Yalcin Sonat/Shutterstock.
com, (tr) mexrix/Shutterstock, (bl) Brian A Jackson/Shutterstock.com, (bc) Artville, (br) Ingram
Publishing/Superstock; T264 Jaroslava V/Shutterstock.com

© National Geographic Learning

CREDITS | T339

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 339 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 498 ────────

NOTES

© National Geographic Learning

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 340 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 499 ────────

NOTES

© National Geographic Learning

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 341 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 500 ────────

NOTES

© National Geographic Learning

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 342 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 501 ────────

NOTES

© National Geographic Learning

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 343 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 502 ────────

NOTES

© National Geographic Learning

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 344 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 503 ────────

NOTES

© National Geographic Learning

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 345 30/04/21 1:04 PM

──────── Page 504 ────────

NOTES

© National Geographic Learning

WLTB_L2_EM_ptg01.indd 346 30/04/21 1:04 PM